Statistical Analyses
See Supplement 1 for the complete statistical analysis plan.
A marginal model was fit for the repeated measures analyses.
The model included the between-participant main effects of
MBSR and exercise, their interaction, and the 2- and 3-way in-
teractions between time and the between-participant ef-
fects. Time (0, 3 [cognitive measures only], 6, and 18 months)
was a within-participants effect with an unspecified covari-
ance matrix due to uneven time intervals between visits.
Site, age, and sex were included as covariates in the models.
Clustering by site was accounted for because site was a factor
in all primary and secondary outcome models.
The primary test of effectiveness of each intervention was
the change in the composite scores from baseline to 6 months
in the participants randomized to undergo the intervention
compared with those not receiving the intervention, as com-
puted with the appropriate contrast (eg, MBSR vs no MBSR).
The 2 × 2 factorial design was analyzed with the 2 main ef-
fects of exercise (underwent exercise intervention vs did not
undergo exercise) and MBSR (underwent MBSR intervention
vs did not undergo MBSR).
All randomized individuals were included in the primary
analysis (Figure 1). Participants were analyzed according to their
randomization group. A Bonferroni-adjusted 2-tailed signifi-
cance level of .025 was used for each of the 2 primary out-
comes. Effect sizes with 95% CIs for 6- and 18-month effects
for all primary and secondary outcomes were computed. Be-
cause of the potential for type I error due to multiple compari-
sons, findings for analyses of secondary time points and sec-
ondary outcomes should be interpreted as exploratory. The
mixed-model analytic approach used is robust in accounting
for missing data. Participants were included in the analytic
model if they had data for at least 1 time point.
Given neutral findings for the primary outcomes, the im-
portance of post hoc analyses became clear. Subsequent per-
protocol analyses were conducted, as were subgroup tests ex-
amining changes in cognitive outcomes among those who
showed the most vs the least change in the physiological and
performance markers described above. The 2 per-protocol
groups were defined post hoc based on examination of atten-
dance data and home practice data: participants reporting
home practice of their randomized intervention (MBSR or ex-
ercise) on at least 70% of days and participants attending at
least 70% of classes. Both groups also excluded individuals who
participated in interventions to which they were not random-
ized (Supplement 2). Additionally, given that the primary out-
comes showed no intervention effect, the original plan to ex-
amine MRI structural changes as part of a mediator analysis
was modified: rather than examining MRI structural changes
as mediators, they were analyzed as secondary outcomes. All
analyses were conducted in SAS, version 9.4 (SAS Institute).

