Statistical Analysis
Primary Outcomes
Participants were analyzed as randomized regardless of inter-
vention adherence. Prior to unblinding, we modified the
original primary analytic plan, replacing the ANCOVA with
mixed-effects linear regression modeling,29(pp189-240) a more
state-of-the-art approach because of its robustness to data
missing at random.29(pp105-141),30 As is standard with this ap-
proach, the models use an individual’s weight or SF-12 PCS
measured at either time point as the outcome, using all avail-
able data. Thus, participants could contribute up to one
12-month outcome and up to 1 baseline measure. Models in-
cluded terms representing the effects of time point, interac-
tion between treatment and time, and randomization strata.
Random effects accounted for within-person correlation.
We omitted the treatment group main effect. The treatment
effect estimate is based on the intervention’s interaction
with the primary end point. This approach is justified by
the study’s large sample and randomized block design,
which promotes outcome equality at baseline.29(pp105-141),30
We did not account for clustering because the intervention
was self-directed.
Secondary Outcomes
For prespecified secondary analyses of 12-month outcomes,11
including dichotomized IPAQ scores and HbA1c concentra-
tion, we used linear mixed models, with the same model speci-
fication as used for coprimary outcome models. For 24-
month outcomes, we prespecified linear mixed models that
mirrored 12-month models. However, after identifying sub-
stantial missing data during model preparation (but before run-
ning the 24-month analyses), we specified models that in-
cluded available data from all 3 time points and adjusted for
whether the outcome was measured after the COVID-19 pan-
demic began, because the pandemic affected use of VA and
weight-related care7 (hence EHR data availability), and health
behaviors.31,32 The 24-month models were run following the
12-month analyses.
We estimated means and standard deviations for continu-
ous variables and frequencies for categorical variables to de-
scribe weight-related care, stratified by treatment group. We
also report descriptive statistics for intervention engagement
among intervention participants.
Post Hoc Analyses
For weight and SF-12 PCS, we examined missingness rates
and distributions at baseline by treatment group, between
those with and without 12- and 24-month data. The missing-
at-random assumption was evaluated for informative miss-
ingness using plots, which display baseline distributions for
completers (baseline and 12-month, and baseline and
24-month) vs noncompleters (baseline-only).33 When data
were not informatively missing per plots, the missing-at-
random assumption was deemed appropriate. When miss-
ingness was substantial or differed between groups, we
evaluated characteristics associated with missingness and
adjusted for available covariates in sensitivity analyses.34 If
data were then deemed informatively missing, we fit pattern
mixture models.
In exploratory analyses, we performed interaction test-
ing to examine whether treatment effects on the coprimary out-
comes differed by sex. As is standard practice for a conserva-
tive estimation of interaction testing, both outcome models
included main effects for sex and intervention, and interven-
tion by sex interaction terms. Otherwise, we used the base lin-
ear mixed model for the SF-12 PCS. For weight, we used mul-
tiple linear regression with an outcome of percent change from
baseline weight to better estimate clinical meaningfulness of
effects in females vs males. Absolute weight was not used for
this assessment because females with obesity have smaller
baseline weights (eg, female participants had lower baseline
weights than male participants in the prior trial testing this
intervention),8 so they would likely lose less absolute weight,
which might lead to an incorrect conclusion that the interven-
tion is less effective for females.
To assess sensitivity of the primary analysis to choice of
baseline weight, we estimated the model using EHR-
recorded weights closest to randomization when available.
Analyses were conducted with R version 4.1.2. Copri-
mary outcomes used a 2-sided significance level of α = .025;
all other comparisons used a 2-sided significance level of
α = .05. Because of potential type I error from multiple com-
parisons, findings from secondary analyses should be consid-
ered exploratory.

