Statistical Analysis
The individual-year data were collapsed into a data set with 1
observation per individual, inputting the individual’s age in
2012 if the person was observed in both 2011 and 2012. We
took the maximum of each diagnosis indicator between 2011
and 2012, thus classifying an individual as having a condition
if it was observed in either 2011 or 2012. There were no miss-
ing data in our sample because to construct the sample we
required observing individuals continuously enrolled in the
Medicaid program or CHIP, year of birth, and income. Condi-
tional on observing this information, we had no missing data
for any outcomes or demographic adjustment variables.
A linear multivariable regression model was estimated for
each outcome comparing the prevalence across children and
adolescents with different levels of family income (which en-
tered the model as a continuous income-to-poverty ratio),
allowing for a differential effect of income among children aged
5 to 9 years (reference group) compared with children and ado-
lescents aged 10 to 17 years. The relationship between each out-
come and income was estimated adjusting for race and eth-
nicity as fixed effects (as self-reported in the ACS based on
detailed fixed categories and a write-in option), female sex as
a fixed effect (as self-reported in ACS), fixed effects for state
of residence (as reported in MAX Person Summary files),
whether age was measured in 2011 or 2012, and fixed effects
for the year of the ACS that provided income information.
We thus measured the association between income and the
prevalence of conditions (and mortality) net of variation in mor-
bidity and mortality that can be attributed to other observ-
able demographic (such as sex and race and ethnicity) and geo-
graphic differences.
The coefficient multiplying the income term was the co-
efficient of interest. It measured, in each age group when
the interaction term was added, what the absolute difference
in the probability of the outcome was at 100% of poverty
higher income (corresponding to $18 106 more income in
2011 and $21 811 more in 2021 for a family of 3). Tests of sta-
tistical significance were based on 95% CIs for a 2-tailed t test
(P value < .05 used as significance threshold), accounting for
ACS sampling survey weights and clustering of standard er-
rors among individuals who resided in the same state. To aid
in the interpretation of magnitudes we also computed the size
of the association coefficient relative to adjusted prevalence
of each outcome within each age group at mean income in the
sample. Because of the potential for type I error due to mul-
tiple comparisons, findings should be interpreted as explor-
atory. All analyses were performed in Stata for Unix 16.1/MP.
To illustrate the shape of the relationship between health
and income graphically, we plotted the adjusted and
weighted prevalence of each condition (in percentages)
within each ventile of the in-sample income distribution for
children aged 5 to 9 years and for children and adolescents
aged 10 to 17 years. These data points were plotted together
with the age group–specific linear trends from the regression
model described above.
The main analysis used aggregate measures of mental
health and substance use disorders as outcomes. In the eFig-
ure in Supplement 1, a graphical illustration of the associa-
tion between adjusted prevalence and income is shown for 8
underlying mental health disorders and 3 underlying sub-
stance use disorders individually.
