Statistical Analysis
The overall and annual prevalence of self-reported labor union
coverage among US health care workers was examined
throughout the 2009-2021 study period. To assess whether
there was an increasing or decreasing trend of labor unioniza-
tion across the last decade, trend analysis was conducted using
the Cox-Stuart trend test.14 The prevalence of unionization was
estimated by state and types of health care workers. The preva-
lence odds ratios and their 95% CIs for being a unionized vs
nonunionized worker by sociodemographic groups were es-
timated using multivariable logistic regression.
To evaluate associations between unionization with pay,
noncash benefits, and work hours, each outcome was re-
gressed on unionization status in separate models, adjusting
for sociodemographic characteristics (age, sex, race and eth-
nicity, state of residence, metropolitan or rural area, central city
status, occupation, education, mean weekly work hours, pub-
lic or private sector employee). Linear regression was used for
pay (ie, mean weekly earnings), employers’ contributions to
workers’ health insurance plan, and work hours outcomes, and
logistic regression for noncash benefit outcomes to estimate
multivariable models and marginal means with 95% CIs. All
dollars were inflation-adjusted to 2020 US dollars using the
consumer price index.
Disparities in pay among sex and racial and ethnic sub-
groups have been documented in the literature.10,11,15 Two-
sided t tests were used to test for interactions between union
membership and mean weekly earnings by sex and by race and
ethnicity groups. Because of the paucity of studies in diverse
populations, stratified analyses were prespecified and con-
ducted by sex (male; female) and by racial and ethnic groups
(Asian, Hispanic, or non-Hispanic Black; non-Hispanic White).
Several sensitivity analyses were conducted. To examine
the potential different effect of union membership and union
coverage, individuals who reported being covered by a labor
union but not being a member were excluded from the union-
ized group. To provide a more generalized assessment of health
insurance benefits, analyses were conducted to examine the
likelihood of having employer-sponsored partial or full pre-
mium–covered health insurance plans compared with none.
To determine whether there remains residual influence of the
cost of living on the association between unionization and pay
(ie, mean weekly earnings) besides state of residence and cen-
tral city status, analyses were conducted in the subsample of
2000 respondents living in major metropolitan areas.
All estimates were weighted to be nationally representa-
tive and correct for nonresponse bias. Less than 0.5% of data
were missing for weekly earnings; therefore, missing data were
classified as unknown in our model for the pay outcome.
Throughout, a 2-sided P < .05 was considered statistically
significant. Because of the potential for type I error due to
multiple comparisons, findings should be interpreted as
exploratory. All analyses were performed using R version 3.6.3
(R Foundation).
