Analytic Plan
All changes to the final analytic protocol were made before
study results were reviewed. Investigators and data analysts
were unaware of outcome results until all follow-up data were
obtained and the primary analytic strategies were finalized.
Means and frequencies of prerandomization variables were
reported separately for each group. Differences between treat-
ment groups were evaluated using standardized mean differ-
ences. Participants were analyzed according to their random-
ization group, regardless of adherence. Analyses for the 2
primary outcomes compared each treatment with usual care
using multiple imputation to handle missing data and a
Bonferroni-corrected 2-tailed type I error of .025. We per-
formed 20 imputations with a fully conditional specification
using Proc MI in SAS.30 Imputation was performed with the
following prespecified variables: age, study group, study site,
clinic, sex, race and ethnicity, body mass index, exercise fre-
quency at baseline, education, employment status, smoking
status, other medical conditions at baseline, number of medi-
cations used for spine pain at baseline, duration of pain at base-
line, number of previous pain episodes, STarT Back score, base-
line ODI, baseline self-efficacy, baseline EQ-5D-5L, and scores
for patient-reported outcomes at every follow-up point (ODI,
cost, Lorig et al self-efficacy scale, and EQ-5D-5L). Each im-
puted data set was analyzed separately using Proc GENMOD
in SAS (with an identity link and normally distributed errors
for ODI and a log link and Poisson-distributed errors for spine-
related spending). Models adjusted for the correlation of
participants within clinics (ie, the cluster randomized de-
sign) and included fixed effects for the delivery networks used
for recruitment. Individual models were pooled using Proc
MIANALYZE and adjusted for age and sex. Secondary analy-
ses adjusted for covariates that had standardized mean dif-
ferences greater than 0.1 at baseline despite randomization.
We conducted several prespecified sensitivity analyses.
First, for pain-related disability, we evaluated the proportion of
participants achieving a 6-point reduction in ODI from baseline
to 3 months. These models used a logit link and binary distrib-
uted errors. Second, we conducted a complete-case analysis in-
cluding individuals with no missing data. Third, because re-
source utilization and ODI were collected at multiple points, we
evaluated cost and ODI data from each point using a repeated
measures design. Fourth, because of the skewed nature of cost
data, we repeated our analyses after replacing extreme cost val-
ues with the 95th percentile value for costs.
We evaluated the effect of treatment within prespecified
subgroups including age, sex, STarT Back risk group, pain lo-
cation, and whether this was the patient’s first pain episode.
These analyses included terms interacting with the subgroup
variable of interest and indicator terms for study group assign-
ment. We considered treatment effects to differ by subgroup if
the 2-tailed P value for the interaction term was less than .05.
Post hoc analyses evaluated spine-related spending after
excluding the cost of the ICE and IPT interventions and the
comparison of rates of outpatient visits, procedures, diagnos-
tic testing, emergency department visits, hospitalization days,
and medication use.
Prespecified analyses of secondary outcomes and post hoc
analyses used the same methods as the primary ODI analy-
ses, using 2-tailed P values with a type I error rate of .05.
Because of the potential for type I error due to multiple com-
parisons, findings for secondary end points should be inter-
preted as exploratory.
All analyses used SAS version 9.4 (SAS Institute Inc).

