Statistical Analyses
First, we compared the demographic characteristics and co-
morbidities of patients hospitalized with STEMI and NSTEMI
for each program in each calendar year; we present data for our
first year (2009) and last year (2018) for simplicity with full re-
sults for all study years available by request.
Second, we calculated age- and sex-adjusted STEMI and
NSTEMI rates (hospitalizations per 1000 enrolled population
age ≥66 years per year), treatment approaches, outcomes, and
measures of resource use for each program and calendar year,
standardized to match the age and sex distribution of Medi-
care Advantage enrollees in 2018.28 To test for differences in
rates, we used χ2 tests or t tests as appropriate. Less than 0.1%
of patients were missing data on either age or sex, and these
observations were excluded from the analyses.
Third, to adjust rates of 30-day mortality and 30-day
readmissions for a larger set of patient characteristics, we
estimated the Medicare Advantage/traditional Medicare dif-
ference in rates using a nested sequence of linear regression
models introducing, in turn, control variables for age and sex,
sociodemographic characteristics (race and ethnicity and
Medicaid dual eligibility), and Elixhauser comorbidities. To
simplify the presentation of these results, we estimated this
sequence of models for the first and last years of the study
period separately.
Fourth, we added hospital fixed effects to distinguish
residual Medicare Advantage/traditional Medicare differ-
ences due to systematically different assignment to high-
performing hospitals vs those driven by treatment differ-
ences within each hospital. Results in models that included
hospital fixed effects were similar, so we present results from
models that did not include hospital fixed effects. Because
coefficients for readmission were largely similar when con-
trolling for this broader set of covariates, we present the age
and sex standardized results for readmissions. Statistical
tests were considered significant at a threshold of P value of
less than .05, and all testing was 2-sided. Because of the
potential for type I error due to multiple comparisons, find-
ings for analyses of secondary end points should be inter-
preted as exploratory. Our analyses were performed using
SAS version 9.4.29
