Statistical analysis
We planned to enrol approximately 80 people so that
approximately 13 participants per cohort would complete
the study. This sample size is typical for phase 1 studies
evaluating safety, pharmacokinetic, or pharmacodynamic
parameters and was considered sufficient to evaluate the
primary outcome of this study, which was safety and
tolerability. Regarding pharmacodynamics, the sample
size of nine in each treatment group of LY3437943 and
15 in the pooled placebo group provided more than
80% power to detect a placebo-adjusted difference in
means of 1·4% for HbA1c change from baseline at week 12,
assuming a common standard deviation of 1·1 using a
two group t-test with a 10% two-sided significance level.
This approach also had more than 90% power to detect a
placebo-adjusted difference in mean bodyweight change
from baseline of 7 kg at week 12, assuming a common
standard deviation of 3 kg using a two group t-test with a
10% two-sided significance level. The safety population
consisted of all participants who received at least one dose
of study drug, whether or not they completed all protocol
requirements. Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics
were assessed in all patients who received at least
one dose of study drug and had evaluable data
(pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic population).
We applied an intention-to-treat principle to the statistical
analysis, so the analyses were completed using the
planned treatment groups for the participants, instead of
the actual treatment assignments.
An efficacy estimand was used for pharmacodynamic
measures, defined as the average treatment effect of
LY3437943 relative to placebo or dulaglutide 1·5 mg at
12 weeks in the participants who were randomly assigned
had they remained on their randomised treatment for the
entire planned 12 weeks’ treatment duration.21 Regarding
participant drop-outs, we assumed hypothetically that all
the participants would remain on their randomised
treatment for the entire planned treatment duration. By
making this assumption, we exclude all the data points
after the treatment discontinuation before doing the
mixed-model repeated-measure analyses, a likelihood-
based estimation method. Absolute values, as well as
change from baseline in each parameter, were analysed
using a mixed-model repeated-measure model to evaluate
treatment effects, and to perform treatment comparisons.
The model included treatment, timepoint (of measure­
ment), and treatment-by-timepoint interaction as fixed
effects and patient as a random effect. Baseline values
were used as a covariate in the change from baseline
analysis. Differences between each LY3437943-treated
group and the placebo group were estimated. Patients
who received placebo and dulaglutide 1·5 mg were pooled
across all cohorts. Least-squares means (LSMs) and
90% CIs are reported. An unstructured covariance
structure was used primarily; a compound symmetric
structure was used if the model failed to converge.
Pharmacokinetic dose proportionality was explored by
use of log-transformed Cmax and AUC of LY3437943 within
a power model (with the log-dose acting as an explanatory
variable) to estimate ratios of dose-normalised geometric
means and corresponding 90% CIs. The estimated ratio
of dose-normalised geometric means of pharmacokinetic
parameters between the highest and lowest doses was
used to assess dose proportionality.
Analyses were completed using SAS version 9.4. The
study is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT04143802.

