Statistical analysis
Summary statistics are presented for all outcome
measures, with the relevant adjusted relative effect
measures (risk ratio), 95% CIs and p values from
two-sided tests. After monitoring baseline variables
during the trial and before finalising the statistical
analysis plan, we planned to adjust the primary outcome
analysis for imbalanced variables likely to influence
results owing to the clustered design. These included
hospital-level minimisation variables (country and
non-referral vs referral hospital type) and key patient
factors, which were both deemed by the trial management
group to be of high clinical importance (contamination
and urgency of surgery), which might be imbalanced
because of the cluster design. No adjustment for multiple
comparisons was made. For all binary outcomes, adjusted
risk ratios (with 95% CIs) were calculated by means of
multilevel log-binomial regression models when possible.
Standardised residuals for each level (hospital nested
within country, by means of an unstructured covariance
structure) to account for the clustered nature of the
sample, and hospital type, contamination, operative
approach, and timing of surgery as fixed effects. The
intraclass correlation coefficient used in the model was
calculated by means of the one-way ANOVA method,
with bootstrapped (cluster resampling with replacement)
95% CIs (1000 replications were sampled).17 If the
log-binomial model failed to converge, a multilevel
modified Poisson regression model with robust standard
errors was used to estimate the same parameters.
Standardised residuals for each level of random effects
and the joint distribution of the random-effect terms were
examined to confirm that they followed a multivariate
normal distribution. For length of hospital stay, a
multilevel linear mixed model was used, after checking
that assumptions of linear models were met, and adjusted
mean differences with 95% CIs were presented.
Sensitivity analyses were done for the primary outcome
to explore the effectiveness of the intervention under
different scenarios. First, a per-protocol analysis, where
participants not adherent to their randomised treatment
were excluded from the analysis population. Second,
best-case and worst-case scenarios, where all patients
with missing data for the primary outcome were recoded
as having achieved the primary outcome (ie, SSI “yes”) or
having not achieved the primary outcome (ie, SSI “no”)
respectively. This analysis also included those who died
before 30 days without having an SSI and were therefore
excluded from the intention-to-treat primary analysis.
Third, cluster size sample size scenarios, to take into
account differing cluster sizes, activity, and recruitment
rates, which might represent the complexity of hospitals,
with larger hospitals offering more complex surgery. Two
sensitivity analyses were done to address this: including
only clusters that reached the central recruitment target
(200 patients) and including only clusters that reached
50% of the recruitment target (100 patients). Finally, a
sensitivity analysis adjusting for only the minimisation
factors (country and type of hospital) was done.
The following prespecified subgroup analyses were
done for the primary outcome to explore whether there
was any evidence of differential treatment effects:
country (type of hospital [non-referral vs referral], urgency
of surgery [elective vs emergency], contamination of
wound [clean–contaminated vs contaminated–dirty],
operative approach [midline vs non-midline] and age of
patient [children (≤16 years) vs adults (>16 years)]). Tests
for statistical heterogeneity are presented alongside the
effect estimate within subgroups. Heterogeneity was
assessed by including an interaction parameter of the
subgroup of interest and treatment group in the model.
Subgroup analyses used a test of interaction to explore
whether there was evidence that the treatment effects
differed across subgroups. An exploratory, descriptive
subgroup analysis by type of 30-day follow-up consent
[written vs verbal] was also done.
The sample size control group rate of 16% was based
on published GlobalSurg 2 cohort study data.1 To
detect an absolute difference of 4% (relative reduction
of 25%, considered by an international group of surgeons
as the minimum clinically important risk reduction)
to 12%, with 90% power and by means of a 5% two-sided
significance level, a minimum of 1580 participants were
required in each group. To allow for clustering of centres
the sample size was adjusted by inflating the estimate by
the design effect given by 1 + (n–1)ρ, where n is the average
cluster size and ρ is the estimated intraclass correlation
coefficient. The estimate for intraclass correlation
coefficient was also calculated from GlobalSurg 2 data.1
With an assumption of an intraclass correlation coeffi­
cient value of 0·01, power calculations indicated that
30 clusters (average size=170 participants) per treatment
group were required. After allowing for 15% loss to
follow-up rate for participants and 5% dropout rate for
clusters, the total sample size was 6400 per group, aiming
for recruitment from 32 clusters per group (64 total) with
an average of 200 participants. This also allowed for
variation in cluster size across our heterogeneous delivery
network (coefficient of variation=0·5). The sample size
was calculated by means of the clustersampsi Command
in Stata 15. The trial was registered with ClinicalTrials.go,
NCT03700749.


