Data analysis
For each included trial, summary data were extracted
from the principal and relevant subsidiary peer-reviewed
publications, independently and in duplicate by two
authors (KJM, AJR) with discrepancies resolved by
consensus discussion (appendix p 4). For trials without
previously published relevant outcomes, results were
provided by trial investigators.
The main focus of efficacy analyses was on kidney
disease progression, acute kidney injury, and a composite
of cardiovascular death or hospitalisation for heart failure.
Kidney disease progression was defined as a sustained
eGFR decrease (≥50%) from randomisation, end-stage
kidney disease (ie, start of maintenance dialysis or receipt
of a kidney transplant), a sustained low eGFR
(<15 mL/min per 1·73 m² or <10 mL/min per 1·73 m²) or
death from kidney failure (appendix p 9). For eight trials
this kidney disease progression outcome was unavailable
publicly, and thus individual trial investigators provided a
re-analysis of eGFR data to derive our composite kidney
disease progression outcome and any other unavailable
outcomes of interest3,4,7,8,12,17–19 (data unavailable from the
short duration SOLOIST-WHF trial20). The kidney failure
component of the primary outcome was defined as a
composite of maintenance dialysis, kidney transplantation,
or sustained low eGFR. On the basis of previously reported
results, we considered acute kidney injury an efficacy
outcome (rather than a safety outcome). Acute kidney
injury was defined by its specific Medical Dictionary for
Regulatory Activities Preferred Term, wherever possible
(appendix pp 10–11). The composite of hospitalisation for
heart failure or cardiovascular death excluded urgent heart
failure visits to enable standardisation across trials.
Cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular death were also
assessed and retained individual trial definitions. All-
cause mortality is a less generalisable outcome than cause-
specific mortality, but it was included for completeness.
1790
Safety outcomes focused on key medical complications
that previous meta-analyses have indicated are potentially
caused by SGLT2 inhibition: ketoacidosis and lower limb
amputation,1 with information on lower limb amputation
particularly sought because the CANVAS trial reported a
significant excess of amputation among participants
allocated to SGLT2 inhibition.21 Additional information on
urinary tract infections (all infections and restricted to
serious infections), mycotic genital infections, severe
hypoglycaemia, and bone fractures was included for
completeness. Details on the derivation of each outcome
by trial are provided in the appendix (pp 10–11).
For the trials in chronic kidney disease, we used
prespecified subgroups according to investigator-reported
primary kidney diagnosis when possible. This applied for
DAPA-CKD and EMPA-KIDNEY, with the subgroups:
diabetic kidney disease or nephropathy; ischaemic and
hypertensive kidney disease; glomerular disease (also
known as glomerulonephritis); and other kidney disease
or diagnosis or unknown combined.10,12,13 CREDENCE
excluded suspected non-diabetic kidney disease, and so all
participants were considered to have diabetic kidney
disease.7 A sensitivity analysis excluding SCORED was
conducted due to an absence of data on investigator-
reported primary kidney diagnosis.9 On the basis of
previous DAPA-CKD publications,22,23 exploratory analyses
were also conducted by subtype of glomerular disease:
immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy versus focal
segmental
glomerulosclerosis
versus
other
glomerulonephritides.
Analyses were done separately in patients with and
without diabetes at baseline (except for analyses by
primary kidney diagnosis). When possible, diabetes-
specific (or primary kidney diagnosis-specific) effects of
treatment were obtained from Cox models reported in
trial publications. When these effects were unavailable
(appendix pp 10–11), log relative risk (RR) and the
associated SE were estimated from the numbers of
events and participants in each arm. Inverse-variance-
weighted averages of log hazard ratios or log RRs were
then used to estimate the treatment effects, summarised
as RR (95% CI), in each patient group and overall.24,25
This information-weighted-average approach has the
desirable property that, at the point of random
assignment, every participant has the same opportunity
to contribute the same amount of statistical information
to the meta-analysis as every other participant, without
making any assumptions about the nature of any true
heterogeneity in results between the trials.
Tests of between-study heterogeneity were conducted in
our previous meta-analysis published in 2021, which
established that effects were generally similar across its
included trials (excluding DELIVER and EMPA-KIDNEY).1
Standard χ² tests for heterogeneity were used to assess
whether treatment effects differed between those with and
without diabetes at recruitment, by trial population (based
on predefined trial eligibility [table]) and by primary
kidney diagnosis. Heterogeneity was also assessed post
hoc for the lower limb amputation outcome, comparing
CANVAS with the other 12 trials combined. In forest
plots, trials were ordered by their mean baseline eGFR
values and effect modification by kidney function was
assessed by a standard χ² test for trend across the set of
ordered results. Heterogeneity and trend p values were
interpreted in the context of the multiple exploratory
hypotheses being tested and the absence of individual
participant-level data. For trials reporting median eGFR
and its IQR, mean and SD values were estimated.43 A
sensitivity analysis reordering trials by median baseline
level of albuminuria (urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio)
was conducted.
Rates of outcome events were presented per 1000 patient-
years. For the outcomes of kidney disease progression,
acute kidney injury, cardiovascular death or hospitalisation
for heart failure, ketoacidosis, and lower limb amputation,
absolute benefits and harms of SGLT2 inhibitors versus
placebo per 1000 patient-years were estimated by diabetes
status and patient group. Absolute effects were estimated
by applying the diabetes status-specific RRs, or their
95% CIs, to the corresponding mean event rates in the
placebo arms (first event only). As in our previous report,1
data from SOLOIST-WHF were excluded from these
analyses due to the extremely high absolute risks in this
trial in patients with a recent hospitalisation for heart
failure.20
All analyses were performed in SAS (version 9.4) and
R (version 3.6.2). Our outline protocol was registe
