Statistical analysis
We present continuous variables as mean (SD) or as
adjusted mean (SE), as appropriate, and categorical
variables as absolute and relative frequencies. We did all
efficacy and safety analyses in the intention-to-treat
(ITT) population, which included all patients who were
validly randomised to the treatment group to which they
were randomly assigned. Analyses of all 180-day outcomes
included only patients enrolled at sites where the ethics
committees approved protocol amendment 1 or 2,
allowing follow-up of patients to day 180.
We compared the occurrence of primary endpoint events
between treatment groups using a χ² test of the difference
in 180-day event rates between groups, calculated from the
difference in Kaplan-Meier estimates of the cumulative
risks at 180 days adjusted for LVEF (≤40% vs >40%) and
geographical region (South America, Russia, Africa, and
western and eastern Europe) using Mantel-Haenszel
weights, and from the variance calculated from their
associated SEs. We combined countries into regions for
analysis because of the sparseness of events in some
countries. Because the protocol was amended on the basis
of a lower than expected event rate to increase the sample
size and change the primary endpoint from 90-day to
180-day death or heart failure readmission, for 180-day
outcomes we down-weighted the results of the initial
cohort (hereafter referred to as cohort 1; which included
patients randomly assigned to treatment on or before
Feb 7, 2020) in the main analysis, proportional to half its
sample size.18 The remaining patients (ie, recruited after
Feb 7, 2020), are referred to as cohort 2. We present the
total number of events and adjusted and down-weighted
event rates in each treatment group, and both the adjusted
risk difference (the absolute difference in proportions) and
adjusted risk ratio [RR] for the primary endpoint. Based on
simulations, with 1800 patients randomly assigned to
treatment groups, we estimated the study to have
approximately 89% power to detect a difference in event
rates of 14% versus 20% at the two-sided 0·05 significance
level.
In prespecified analyses of the primary endpoint, we
assessed subgroup-by-treatment group interactions by
comparing estimated treatment group risk differences
between subgroups defined by age at study entry
(≤65 vs >65 years and ≤75 vs >75 years), baseline
LVEF (≤40% vs >40%), baseline systolic blood pressure
(≤median vs >median), baseline local value of
NT-proBNP (≤median vs >median), and history of atrial
fibrillation or flutter or atrial fibrillation or flutter
present at screening (yes vs no). In post-hoc analyses,
we examined additional subgroups including baseline
LVEF (<50% vs ≥50%), region (Europe vs not Europe),
race (White or Caucasian vs not White), sex (male vs
female), and baseline estimated glomerular filtration
rate (≤median vs >median). We constructed a χ² test of
the treatment-by-subgroup interaction from the
unadjusted Kaplan-Meier estimates of event rate
differences and associated SEs in each level of a
subgroup factor. Event rates from cohort 1 were down-
weighted in these subgroup analyses.
Secondary endpoints were to be tested sequentially. For
the prespecified main analysis of the EQ-VAS, we used
only observed data and excluded patients for whom no
linguistically validated EQ-5D translation was available.
We compared treatment groups using ANCOVA, with
fixed terms for treatment, LVEF (≤40 vs >40%),
geographical region, and baseline value. We analysed the
secondary, prespecified exploratory, and sensitivity
180-day clinical outcomes similarly to the primary
endpoint. For 90-day outcomes, patients enrolled at all
sites were included and the results of cohort 1 were not
down-weighted.
We calculated the Finkelstein-Schoenfeld hierarchal
composite endpoint by comparing each patient with
every other patient within randomisation strata with
respect to a hierarchy of outcomes: time to death up to
day 90, number of heart failure readmissions up to
day 90, and categorised change in EQ-5D VAS from
baseline to day 90. We present the treatment effect
as the Mann-Whitney odds adjusted for LVEF
(≤40% vs >40%) and geographical region using Mantel-
Haenzsel weights. We compared treatment groups
using the van Elteren’s test, stratified by LVEF
(≤40% vs >40%) and geographical region, using modified
ridit scores.
We did prespecified sensitivity analyses of the primary
endpoint in which the results in cohort 1 were fully
weighted according to its sample size and in which
results in cohort 1 were discarded thus including only
results in cohort 2. We also did a prespecified sensitivity
analysis to assess the effect of COVID-19 on the result,
in which we censored the time to event in patients who
died due to COVID-19 without a previous hospitalisation
due to heart failure on the date of death due to COVID-19.
To assess the effect of investigator experience on the
findings, we did a prespecified sensitivity analysis of the
primary endpoint only including patients at sites that
enrolled more than ten patients. We did a prespecified
sensitivity analysis of the change in EQ-VAS from
baseline to day 90 in which a missing value due to death
was set to 0 (“the worst health you can imagine”) and
then remaining missing values were multiply imputed;
estimates and tests of treatment effect were then
combined over the imputation datasets using Rubin’s
algorithm. We did post-hoc exploratory analyses to
assess all-cause death or all-cause readmission to
hospital at 180 days, including COVID-19-related events
and excluding COVID-19-related events. In these
analyses, we used the same methods as for the primary
endpoint, with the same adjustment for LVEF and
geographical region and with results in cohort 1 down-
weighted.
We compared treatment groups with respect to
changes in vital signs and in local laboratory values from
baseline to day 90 using ANCOVA models with fixed
terms for treatment, LVEF (≤40% vs >40%), geographical
region, and baseline value; we present least square mean
(SE) for each treatment group along with the estimated
adjusted mean treatment group difference (95% CI).
Local measurements of NT-proBNP greater than the
upper reporting limit for the assay used were set to the
upper reporting limit; values were log-transformed for
analysis. Geometric means with associated 95% CIs at
each visit, and adjusted ratios of follow-up to baseline
geometric means are presented in each treatment group,
along with the treatment group ratio of these ratios. We
compared the treatment groups with respect to ordered
categorical measures of heart failure signs and symptom
severity using van Elteren’s tests, stratified by LVEF
(≤40% vs >40%), geographical region, and baseline value;
we present treatment effects as Mann-Whitney odds
stratified by LVEF (≤40% vs >40%), geographical region,
and baseline value.
As stated in the protocol, the DSMB could recommend
that the study be discontinued for futility at either of
two planned interim futility analyses if the estimated
conditional power for the primary endpoint—assuming
that the treatment effect assumed for the sample size in
the protocol applies to the remainder of the study—was
less than 0·25. No adjustment to the final α level was
required for these futility analyses. After a planned
interim futility analysis, when approximately 500 patients
had 90-day follow-up data, the study was amended to
revise the primary endpoint and increase the sample size
to increase power to assess the outcome differences
between the two treatment groups. It was not intended to
stop the trial early for superior efficacy. However, after
reviewing a second interim futility analysis presented at a
planned safety evaluation when approximately
1000 patients had 90-day follow-up data, the DSMB
recommended stopping the trial because of the larger
than expected risk reduction of the primary endpoint in
the high-intensity care group, which remained highly
significant in sensitivity analyses, and without safety
concerns. Patients who had not completed the trial at the
time the trial was terminated were brought in for a final
study visit. These and any other censored follow-up times
were included in the Kaplan-Meier estimates of
cumulative risks.
Two-sided p values of less than 0.05 were considered to
be statistically significant. We did all analyses using
SAS (version 9.4). This study is registered at ClinicalTrials.
gov, NCT03412201.




