Statistical analysis
The study hypothesis was that weight-adjusted
intermediate-dose low-molecular-weight heparin would
be superior to fixed low-dose low-molecular-weight
heparin for the prevention of pregnancy-associated
venous thromboembolism. The sample size was event
driven, with a targeted number of primary outcome
events of 29, assuming a 65% relative risk reduction with
intermediate-dose versus low-dose low-molecular-weight
heparin, a power of 80%, and a two-sided significance
level of 0·05. On the basis of an expected incidence of
venous thromboem­
bolism of 4–5% in the low-dose
group,18 the expected sample size was determined to be
859–1074.
We did the primary efficacy analysis in the intention-to-
treat (ITT) population, defined as all women randomly
assigned to treatment, and included all data and
adjudicated outcomes from randomisation up to 6 weeks
post partum. Secondary efficacy analyses were also
assessed in the ITT population. We also did prespecified
analyses of the primary efficacy outcome from
randomisation until 3 months post partum. In post-hoc
exploratory analyses, we also assessed efficacy outcomes
during the antepartum and post-partum periods. We did
prespecified analyses of the primary and secondary
efficacy outcomes up to 6 weeks post partum in the per-
protocol population and included outcomes occurring
during the on-treatment period (defined as the time from
randomisation to the last day of allocated low-molecular-
weight heparin dose plus 2 days). Women were considered
off-treatment in case of deviation from the allocated dose
for more than 2 consecutive weeks. The per-protocol
population included women without major protocol
deviations, a self-reported adherence of 80% or higher,
and who received at least one dose of allocated study
treatment and had known date of end of on-treatment
period.
We assessed safety in all women who received at least
one dose of allocated study treatment and who had a
known date of end of on-treatment period, and included
in our analyses all data and adjudicated outcomes from
randomisation up to 6 weeks post partum.
We did prespecified subgroup analyses of the primary
efficacy and safety outcomes according to maternal age,
location of previous venous thromboem­bolism, provok­
ing factors of previous venous thromboembolism, BMI,
thrombophilia, parity, low-molecular-weight heparin use
before randomisation, and use of aspirin during
pregnancy. We did sensitivity analyses of the primary
efficacy and safety outcomes including the first pregnancy
in this study only and excluding women who had a
miscarriage before 14 weeks.
For all outcomes, we used the two-sided χ² test (or
Fisher’s exact test if fewer than five observations) to
compare the intermediate-dose group with the low-dose
group. We calculated relative risks (RR) with 95% CIs on
the basis of normal approximation. We did time-to-event
analyses using Cox proportional hazards models to
obtain hazard ratios with 95% CIs, censoring patients at
loss to follow-up, withdrawal of informed consent, or end
of study period. We checked the proportionality
assumption by visual inspection of the log-minus-log
plots and assessment of Schoenfeld residuals. We did not
impute missing data and we only analysed observed data.
Baseline data that were missing but that were then
collected during follow-up visits were used to complete
the table of baseline characteristics. For baseline variables
such as bodyweight, we used the available bodyweight
closest to the randomisation date. For primary and
secondary outcomes, data from the visits after missed
visits were used.
We did all analyses using R (version 4.0.3), particularly
using the packages “survival” (version 3.2–7) and
“epitools” (version 0.5–10.1). This study is registered with
ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01828697.

