Statistical analysis
The trial had 80% power to detect a 20% hazard rate
reduction in the primary composite outcome, corres­
ponding to a hazard ratio of 0·80; a 2-sided α=0·04 was
used to control the Type I error rate, and variability in
cluster sizes was accounted for by using the harmonic
mean of person-time years (assuming a baseline rate of
9·5 events per 100 patient-years and a coefficient of
variation of 0·216; appendix p 33).7,19 For the key secondary
outcome, the trial had 84% power to detect a 4 mm Hg
between-group difference in the mean drop in systolic
blood pressure; a 2-sided α=0·01 was chosen to control the
Type I error rate (assuming SD of 7·2, a constant
conservative intraclass correlation coefficient of 0·4, and an
average drop across all centres and periods of 28 mm Hg).7
Patients aged 18 years or older entered the trial for
follow-up analysis once they received outpatient
maintenance haemodialysis at a trial centre for at least
90 days. The 90-day rule was applied to avoid including
patients who received haemodialysis on a temporary basis
for indications such as acute kidney injury or drug
overdose. Patients met the criteria for trial entry either on
April 3, 2017, or during the ensuing 4-year trial period. The
primary analysis used an intention-to-treat approach, such
that all outcomes were attributed to the centre in which
the patient entered the trial (the index centre), regardless
of whether the patient transitioned to another kidney
replacement therapy (eg, home dialysis or kidney
transplantation), transferred to another haemodialysis
centre (where they would then receive the dialysate
temperature procedure of the new centre), or whether
they opted out or had other reasons to be non-adherent to
the randomly assigned dialysate temperature in follow-up.
If cooler dialysate prevents intradialytic injury to the heart
and other organs, its benefit might extend after it is
received.
The referent group in comparative analyses was
standard temperature dialysate. We assessed the sub-
distribution hazard ratio of the primary outcome using
multivariable generalised estimating equations to account
for the clustering of patient outcomes within centres and
the competing risk of non-cardiovascular death.22,23
The model accounted for the randomisation approach
by adjusting for the covariates constrained in the random­
isation (appendix p 26). We tested model assumptions
(appendix p 34). We examined the robust­
ness of the
primary outcome result in six prespecified sensitivity
analyses (as-treated, which accounted for trans­itions to
different types or locations of kidney replacement therapy
in follow-up; non-cardiovascular death treated as a
censoring event; treating other events, such as receipt of a
kidney transplant or switching to home dialysis, as
competing-risk events; considering hospital admissions
for myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke, or congestive
heart failure as recurrent events; accounting for additional
censoring events such as receiving a kidney transplant or
switching to home dialysis in the cause-specific hazard
model; and not adjusting for covariates constrained
in the randomisation [unadjusted]). We conducted two
prespecified subgroup analyses of the primary outcome
(pre-existing cardiovascular disease [yes vs no] and trial
entry date [on April 3 vs after April 3, 2017]) and seven post-
hoc subgroup analyses.
We assessed the between-group difference in the key
secondary outcome (the mean drop in intradialytic
systolic blood pressure) using an unadjusted linear mixed
model on the cluster-period summaries, account­ing for
repeated measures at the cluster level over time.24 It was
not necessary to account for repeated measures at the
patient level in these cluster-level analyses. We also used
this method to analyse the between-group difference in
five measures of intradialytic hypotension (appendix
p 31).24 We explored different correlation structures to
account for the longitudinal aspect of the data,
including unstructured, compound symmetry, variance
components, and auto-regressive (AR[1]) correlation
structures. Our model failed to converge when using an
unstructured covariance matrix. We explored the impact
of the period as a fixed effect, where the period variable
was treated as a continuous variable, a categorical
variable, or removed from the model. After running
all model explorations, the lead statistician
(Stephanie N Dixon; independently and blinded to the
results) chose the best model based on rule of parsimony,
overall meaning for trial design and data collection
methods, and model fit statistics (Akaike information
criterion and Bayesian information criterion). Using
these methods, our selected model had a categorical
fixed-period variable and an autoregressive(1) covariance
structure.
We analysed the other secondary and additional time-to-
event outcomes with the same approach as used for the
primary outcome. Death (or non-cardiovascular-related
death) was treated as a competing-risk event in these
analyses when not part of the outcome. We analysed the
between-group differences in all-cause emergency
department visits or hospital admissions using a negative
binomial model relevant for count data while adjusting for
clustering of dialysis centres with generalised estimating
equations and using the log of time as an offset. Between-
group differences in patient-reported symptoms are
reported as relative risks obtained from a model with a
binomial distribution and log link function using
a generalised estimating equations approach and a
sandwich estimator to account for clustering of dialysis
centres.
In accordance with prespecified alpha-spending
criteria,19 analyses of the primary composite outcome
(including additional and subgroup analyses) are
presented with 96% CIs, and analyses of blood pressure
outcomes are presented with 99% CIs. Once alpha was
spent, there was no allowance for multiplicity and
inferences might not be reproducible; no other p values
are reported. Other outcomes are presented with either
95% or 99% CIs.
All analyses were done in SAS, version 9.4. An
independent data safety and monitoring committee met
five times during the trial period and decided not to do any
interim analyses of outcomes. The study is registered with
ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02628366.
