tatistical Analysis
On the basis of data from previous phase 2 trials
involving patients with eosinophilic esophagi-
tis25,34 and assuming a dropout rate of 15%, we
calculated that a sample of 40 patients per trial
group would provide Part A of the trial with
more than 99% power to detect a between-group
difference of 62 percentage points with respect
to histologic remission at week 24 (65% with
dupilumab and 3% with placebo) at a two-sided
significance level of 5% using Fisher’s exact test.
We also calculated that the enrollment of 40
patients in each group would provide 80%
power to detect a between-group difference in
the absolute change from baseline in DSQ score
at week 24 of −9.0 points, with a common stan-
dard deviation of 13.0, at a two-sided signifi-
cance level of 5%, using a two-sample t-test. On
the basis of the results in Part A, we calculated
that 70 patients per trial group would provide
Part B of the trial with more than 99% power to
detect a between-group difference of 55 percent-
age points with respect to histologic remission
at week 24 (60% with dupilumab and 5% with
placebo) at a two-sided significance level of 5%
using Fisher’s exact test. We also calculated that
the enrollment of 70 patients per trial group
would provide more than 99% power to detect a
between-group difference in the absolute change
from baseline in the DSQ score at week 24 of
–12.3 points, with a common standard deviation
of 15.0, at a two-sided significance level of 5%,
using a two-sample t-test.
Efficacy analyses were performed in the full
analysis set (all the patients who had undergone
randomization). Safety analyses were performed
in the safety analysis set (all the patients who
had undergone randomization and received at
least one dose or part of a dose of dupilumab or
placebo). The between-group differences in the
percentage of patients with histologic remission
and all binary secondary end points were ana-
lyzed with the use of the Cochran–Mantel–
Haenszel test adjusted for randomization strati-
fication factors (i.e., age [12 to <18 years or ≥18
years] and use of PPIs at randomization [yes or
no]). Differences between the dupilumab and
placebo groups in the absolute change from
baseline in the DSQ score and all continuous
secondary end points were analyzed with the use
of analysis of covariance, with trial group, ran-
domization stratification factors, and score at
baseline (i.e., baseline DSQ score in the case of
absolute change in DSQ score) as covariates in-
cluded in the model. Safety analyses were de-
scriptive.
Parts A and B were carried out as two sepa-
rate trials with no overlapping patients. Each trial
part had a separate and independent two-sided
alpha level of 0.05 and was considered to be
positive independently on the basis of the sig-
nificance of the findings with respect to the two
primary end points. For each trial part, a hierar-
chical procedure was applied to control the type
I error. The hierarchical order for each trial part
is provided in Tables S2 and S3. A P value of less
than 0.05 was required for both primary end-
point measures to consider the results for either
to be significant. The testing would proceed to
the next end point only if the difference was
significant for the previous one.
In Parts A and B, to account for the use of
rescue treatment in the primary analysis for a
peak esophageal intraepithelial eosinophil count
of 6 or fewer eosinophils per high-power field,
patients were considered to have had no re-
sponse after the use of rescue treatment. For the
primary end point of absolute change from base-
line in the DSQ score, data were imputed with
the use of multiple imputation for all time points
subsequent to the use of rescue treatment. Pa-
tients with missing values for the peak esopha-
geal intraepithelial eosinophil count at week 24
were classified as having no response if data
were missing for reasons other than those related
to coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19), or data
were imputed with the use of multiple imputa-
tion if they were missing because of restrictions
related to Covid-19. The missing DSQ scores at
week 24 were imputed with the use of multiple
imputation. The 95% confidence intervals for the
absolute change from baseline in the DSQ score
were calculated according to Rubin’s formula. In
Part C, analyses in the Part A–C group were
purely descriptive and were based on all observed
data regardless of the use of rescue treatment.
Full details of the statistical methods are provided
in the Supplementary Appendix and the statisti-
cal analysis plan (available with the protocol).s

