Statistical Analysis
We estimated that 1200 patients (600 per trial
group) would provide the trial with more than
90% power to detect superiority of methylpred-
nisolone over placebo with respect to the pri-
mary end point, assuming that the magnitude of
the treatment effect could be described with the
use of an ordinal logistic-regression model with
a common odds ratio parameter of 0.70. This
assumption implies that the odds of having a
less favorable outcome is 30% lower among pa-
tients randomly assigned to receive methylpred-
nisolone than among those assigned to receive
placebo and that this statement is true for any
possible definition of a “less favorable outcome”
based on a dichotomization of the primary end
point. Between-group comparisons were per-
formed in a population of patients who had
undergone randomization and surgery and re-
ceived methylprednisolone or placebo (the mod-
ified intention-to-treat population). We chose
this population because eligibility was defined
with respect to surgery, and the trial end points
were all postoperative outcomes.
The distribution of the ranked outcome com-
ponents of the primary end point was compared
between the trial groups with the use of a pro-
portional-odds logistic-regression model for or-
dered categorical data. A model-based analysis
was chosen in order to incorporate covariate
adjustment to increase statistical power.20 Treat-
ment effects were expressed with the use of odds
ratios, with an odds ratio lower than 1 favoring
methylprednisolone and suggesting that the out-
comes are shifted toward more favorable rank-
ings. Estimates are presented with Wald-type
approximate 95% confidence intervals. The pre-
specified covariates were selected for inclusion
in the model on the basis of previous analyses
by the STS21 and trial simulations22 and included
the following: age, weight, prematurity status,
and the 2020 STS–European Association for
Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (STAT) Mortality Cate-
gory23
; in addition, adjustment was made for the
random effect of enrollment site. Imputation of
missing data was performed in three records for
prematurity and STAT Mortality Category. The
underlying proportionality assumption in the
model was assessed graphically by comparing
empirical with predicted logits and statistically
by conducting a score test. Graphical testing
revealed no large visible violations of propor-
tionality. Statistical testing indicated strong evi-
dence of at least a small violation (P<0.001). The
statistical analysis plan, available with the pro-
tocol, anticipated that there would be interpret-
ability issues for the logistic model if its assump-
tions were violated and therefore specified the
use of the win ratio24 (also known as a general-
ized odds ratio25 ) as an additional assumption-
free measure of treatment effect. The win ratio
is calculated by forming all possible pairs con-
sisting of one patient from the methylpredniso-
lone group and one from the placebo group,
then dividing the number of pairs in which the
patient in the methylprednisolone group has a
better outcome than the patient in the placebo
group (i.e., a win) by the number of pairs in
which the opposite occurs (i.e., a loss). A 95%
confidence interval for the win ratio was calcu-
lated with the use of the Agresti formula.25
Exploratory analyses of heterogeneity of the
treatment effect with respect to the primary end
point were performed in prespecified subgroups.
We used the covariate-adjusted proportional-
odds model and modified it by estimating sub-
group-by-trial-group interactions. Between-group
differences with respect to all secondary end
points were analyzed by means of regression
modeling with adjustment for the same covari-
ates as in the proportional-odds model used in
the primary analysis. For binary outcomes, we
used logistic regression. For postoperative length
of hospital stay, we used the Fine and Gray
model for time-to-event data,26 with in-hospital
death as a competing risk.
The statistical analysis plan did not include a
provision to formally adjust for multiple com-
parisons in the secondary end-point and sub-
group analyses. Confidence intervals were not
adjusted for multiplicity and should not be used
in place of a hypothesis test.
