Statistical Analysis
Baseline covariates were compared between the
exposure groups with the use of standardized
mean differences (a difference of <10% was con-
sidered to be balanced). Propensity scores for
each exposure window were calculated with the
use of logistic regression, with exposure to bu-
prenorphine as the dependent variable and with
all the covariates as independent predictors.23 In
addition, we used a high-dimensional propensity-
score algorithm to empirically select variables from
all available diagnosis codes, procedure codes, and
medication dispensings, with the goal of captur-
ing confounders beyond the prespecified list.24
All the prespecified covariates were forced into
the high-dimensional propensity-score model, and
200 additional covariates were included on the
basis of the strength of their relationship to the
exposure status.
Overlap weights were calculated. This meth-
od upweighted persons in the overlapping por-
tion of the propensity-score distribution by as-
signing each person a weight reflective of the
propensity to receive the alternative treatment and
created perfect balance between the exposure
groups with regard to all the covariates included
in the propensity score.25 Crude and adjusted risk
ratios for buprenorphine as compared with meth-
adone were estimated with the use of log-bino-
mial regression, and two-sided 95% confidence
intervals were calculated with the use of a robust
variance estimator to account for weighting. Ab-
solute risk differences were estimated with the
use of weighted binomial regression. No adjust-
ment was made for multiple testing, so the widths
of the confidence intervals should not be used in
place of hypothesis testing.
Multiple sensitivity analyses were conducted
to test the robustness of the findings. Exposure
misclassification is possible for buprenorphine
because we had records of dispensings, not of
consumption, whereas methadone was adminis-
tered under supervision in a clinic. To address this
potential misclassification, buprenorphine expo-
sure was redefined as two or more dispensings
during the exposure window on the assumption
that if the medication was refilled, it was probably
taken as prescribed.
We did not require a diagnosis code for opioid
use disorder in order for a person to be included
in the study population because we limited expo-
sure to formulations and procedure codes that
were indicated only for opioid agonist therapy.
To test the robustness of the underlying assump-
tion that all the patients treated with these for-
mulations had opioid use disorder, the cohort
was restricted to pregnant persons with a diag-
nosis code for opioid use disorder from 90 days
before the last menstrual period to 1 day before
delivery.
Buprenorphine and methadone treatment were
not covered by Medicaid in all states or for all
years of our study period. This factor could have
introduced confounding if the risk of the outcomes
varied between states or changed over time. There-
fore, we identified the start of Medicaid coverage
for buprenorphine and methadone treatment in
each state26 and limited the analysis to pregnan-
cies in which the date of the last menstrual period
occurred when both medications were covered by
Medicaid.
Persons who received buprenorphine may have
received more comprehensive care in an office-
based care setting than persons who received
methadone in an opioid treatment program,16,27
which could have resulted in the underdiagnosis
of health conditions in persons who received
methadone; therefore, we performed an analysis
in each group that included only pregnant per-
sons who received the highest level of prenatal
care according to the Adequacy of Prenatal Care
Utilization Index (which measures the adequacy
of the timing of initiation of prenatal care and
number of received prenatal care visits).22 Preg-
nant persons who received timely prenatal care
were assumed to have similar quality of care
across all health care domains and therefore to
be less susceptible to residual confounding. Fi-
nally, in order to quantify potential bias owing
to unmeasured confounding and outcome misclas-
sification, we conducted an E-value assessment28
and quantitative bias analyses.29
