Statistical Analysis
We determined that a sample size of 36,000 men
would provide the trial with 80% power to show
the superiority of MRI-targeted biopsy alone as
compared with systematic biopsy with respect to
the reduction in clinically insignificant prostate
cancer, with the use of a two-sided test at a sig-
nificance level of 0.05 for the primary outcome.
These calculations were based on the assumption
that the strategy of using MRI-targeted biopsy
alone would reduce the overdiagnosis of clinically
insignificant cancer by 50% (Section S7).
We performed analyses on the results of the
first screening round of the GÖTEBORG-2 trial
(Fig. 1). The main analysis, performed according
to the intention-to-treat principle, examined data
from all the participants in the two groups, re-
gardless of whether they had adhered to the
protocol. Two variants of per-protocol analyses
were performed as sensitivity analyses. For pur-
poses of the intention-to-treat analysis, partici-
pants who had an indication for biopsy but did
not undergo biopsy were considered not to have
cancer. To investigate the importance of these
missing values, we performed another sensitivity
analysis based on multiple imputation of the
primary outcome (Section S8).
The per-protocol analysis was restricted to
participants who had strictly adhered to the di-
agnostic pathway specified in the protocol. The
modified per-protocol analysis included data
from participants who had strictly adhered to
the diagnostic pathway, but excluded results from
possible systematic biopsies in the experimental
group if those biopsies had been performed dur-
ing the diagnostic biopsy phase of the trial and
the targeted biopsies were benign.
We evaluated the primary and secondary out-
comes by comparing the relative risk and differ-
ence in cancer detection between the experimen-
tal group and the reference group and calculated
two-sided 95% confidence intervals. The biopsy
results in the reference group were evaluated in
two ways: one that included all cancers that had
been detected (results from MRI-targeted and
systematic biopsy) and one that included cancers
that were detected when targeted biopsy was
disregarded (results from systematic biopsy only).
The score method was used for testing and calcu-
lating confidence intervals.24 The widths of the
confidence intervals were not adjusted for multi-
plicity and should not be used in place of hypoth-
esis testing. Significance testing was performed
only for the main definition of clinically insig-
nificant cancer (Gleason score, 3+3). A P value of
less than 0.05 was considered to indicate statis-
tical significance. Statistical analyses were con-
ducted with the use of R statistical software,
version 4.0.3 (R Foundation).

