Statistical Analysis
The sample size was calculated on the basis of a
comparison of the percentage of patients with
progression-free survival at 6 months. On the
basis of a study by Hodi et al.,32 it was expected
that the percentage of patients with progression-
free survival at 6 months in the ipilimumab
group would be 20 to 25%. We estimated that at
least 80 patients would have to undergo random-
ization in each group (160 patients in total) for
the trial to have 90% power to detect an increase
in progression-free survival at 6 months from
20% in the ipilimumab group to 45% in the TIL
group (odds ratio, 3.27), using a two-group con-
tinuity corrected chi-square test with a two-sided
significance level of 0.05. With this level of ac-
crual, an absolute increase from 25 percentage
points with ipilimumab to 50 percentage points
with TIL therapy (odds ratio, 3.0) in progression-
free survival could be detected with 88% power.
Considering the possibility that 5 to 10% of the
patients randomly assigned to the TIL group
would not receive the intended treatment, the
required sample size was calculated to be 168 to
176 patients. Although the trial was powered to
compare progression-free survival at 6 months,
during the course of the trial it was considered
statistically more efficient to analyze the entire
progression-free survival curve with the use of
survival methods, and this was included in a
protocol amendment. Considering that the pow-
er calculation reflected a conservative approach,
analysis of complete progression-free survival
would yield sufficient power.
Progression-free and overall survival curves
were constructed with the use of the Kaplan–
Meier method, and treatment groups were com-
pared with the use of the stratified (unweighted)
log-rank test and the stratified Cox regression
model. The trial was considered to be positive if
the progression-free survival among patients
who received TILs was significantly longer than
that among those who received ipilimumab, on
the basis of the log-rank test with a two-sided
P value below 0.05. In addition, a prespecified
per-protocol analysis of the primary end point
with the use of a landmark approach was per-
formed, including patients who received the trial
treatment without rapid clinical progression with-
in 5 weeks after randomization. As exploratory
post hoc analyses, comparisons of progression-
free and overall survival across subgroups of
interest were performed. Data are presented in a
forest plot, and survival curves were constructed
with the use of the Kaplan–Meier method.
Responses after TIL and ipilimumab treatment
were reported with their associated 95% bino-
mial confidence intervals. Health-related quality-
of-life outcomes were evaluated with the use of
a generalized-estimating-equations model for
longitudinal data.33,34 The widths of the confi-
dence intervals for the secondary end points and
exploratory post hoc analyses have not been ad-
justed for multiplicity and cannot be used in
place of a hypothesis test. Details are provided
in the Statistical Analyses section of the Supple-
mentary Appendix, protocol, and statistical
analysis plan.

