Statistical Analysis
We powered our trial with a sample of 152 for
the exploration of moderators of training effects
(see the Supplementary Appendix, available at
NEJM.org). For the two primary outcomes,
which were assessed at 1 month and 6 months
after training, we estimated that, at a two-tailed
alpha level of less than 0.05, a sample of 152
participants (76 in each group) would provide
the trial with 96% power to detect an incidence
rate ratio of 0.88 or less between the interven-
tion group and the control group for the count
of long glances and an adjusted mean between-
group difference of −0.36 SD or less for the
standard deviation of lane position in feet.
The primary analyses were performed in the
intention-to-treat population, which included all
the participants who had undergone randomiza-
tion. Given that driving experience affects driv-
ing outcomes,19 the analyses of the primary
outcomes included prespecified adjustment for
driver’s experience (i.e., the number of months
with a driver’s license). To assess the primary
outcomes, we used generalized estimating equa-
tions with an independent correlation structure
and with accounting for clustering within par-
ticipants for each outcome. Trial group (inter-
vention or control), time point (baseline, 1 month
after training, or 6 months after training), and
two interaction terms between group and time
point (baseline vs. 1 month and baseline vs.
6 month) were tested. A Poisson distribution
with a natural logarithmic link function was
specified in the analysis of the count of long
glances. A normal distributional assumption with
an identity link function was specified in the
analysis of standard deviation of lane position.
To control for the four tests of the two primary
outcomes (each primary outcome at 1 month
and 6 months), we used a Bonferroni-corrected
alpha of 0.0125.
To assess secondary real-world outcomes, the
number of days that the in-vehicle recording
device was operational was included as a covari-
ate to control for cases in which the in-vehicle
recording device had been removed early (e.g., if
the motor vehicle was destroyed in a collision).
These analyses were conducted in the as-treated
population, which involved participants for whom
data from the in-vehicle recording device were
available. The number of months of driving ex-
perience was included as a covariate. Modified
generalized estimating equation analyses20 with
assumption of a Poisson distribution and natu-
ral logarithmic link function were used to ana-
lyze individual events on the in-vehicle recording
device per participant (random effect) and to as-
sess the estimated relative risk of each dichoto-
mous outcome (i.e., presence or absence of long
glance and presence or absence of collision or
near-collision per g-force event). Because there
was no plan for adjustment of the widths of
confidence intervals for multiplicity correction
for secondary outcomes, no definite conclusions
can be drawn from these results.
Missing data were handled with the use of
100 imputed data sets that were based either on
fully conditional specification imputation for long
glances or on model-based imputation for stan-
dard deviation of lane position (primary out-
comes) and for missing data on the presence or
absence of long glances as assessed by the in-
vehicle recording device (secondary outcome)
(see the Supplementary Appendix). The incidence
of adverse events related to simulated driving
during training and evaluation was compared be-
tween groups with the use of Fisher’s exact tests.

