Statistical Analysis
The sample-size calculation is provided in the
Supplementary Appendix. With the assumption
that at 72 weeks after randomization 50% of the
patients in the standard-care group and 45% of
those in the investigational groups would have
an unfavorable outcome event, we determined that
a sample of 181 patients per group in trial stage 2
would provide the trial with approximately 85%
power to detect a noninferiority margin of 12
percentage points. An alpha level of 1.7% (equiv-
alent to a two-sided 96.6% confidence interval)
was chosen to allow for both the adaptive nature
of the design and the multiple comparisons of
up to three groups. The estimated sample was
increased to 201 patients per group to allow for
patients who could not be evaluated. A noninfe-
riority margin of 12 percentage points as the
upper boundary of the confidence interval was
determined to be a reasonable clinical and pub-
lic health trade-off limit, given the benefits of a
shorter treatment duration, decreased pill bur-
den and regimen cost, and the all-oral nature of
the investigational regimens. This noninferiority
margin was congruent with that in recent trials
involving patients with drug-resistant tuberculo-
sis in which the noninferiority margin was 10 to
12 percentage points.7,8
The efficacy outcomes were analyzed in the
intention-to-treat, modified intention-to-treat,
and per-protocol populations, and the safety out-
comes were analyzed in the as-treated popula-
tion. Binary outcomes were summarized with
absolute risk differences (with the use of a gen-
eralized linear model for a binomial outcome
with an identity function) and risk ratios (with
the use of a generalized linear model for a bino-
mial outcome with a log-link function). Adjust-
ment for randomization site was planned in all
analyses. For the primary efficacy and safety
outcomes, corresponding two-sided 96.6% con-
fidence intervals were reported for effect esti-
mates, and two-sided 95% confidence intervals
were reported for secondary efficacy outcomes.
The secondary outcomes were not adjusted for
multiplicity. Prespecified subgroup analyses were
conducted for the primary efficacy outcome. For
binary safety outcomes, risk differences are re-
ported with the use of the same approach as that
described above. For the safety outcome of the
QTcF value at 24 weeks, the difference in the
mean value in each investigational group from
the mean value in the standard-care group was
assessed with adjustment for baseline QTcF val-
ues and with the use of linear regression.
Additional analyses of safety and efficacy were
conducted in the BPaLC and BPaL groups with
the use of the same approach but with two-sided
95% confidence intervals. Additional details are
provided in the Supplementary Appendix.
