Statistical analysis
Football players and men from the general population
were followed from cohort entry to emigration, outcome
event, death, or end of follow-up (31 December 2020).
Emigration, death that did not include an outcome
event, and end of follow-up constituted censoring
events. We used Cox regression analysis with age as the
time scale and adjusted for region of residence, place
of birth, and calendar time as a time varying covariate
(supplementary table 3) to estimate the hazard ratio
for the risk of the primary outcome among football
players versus men from the general population.
We performed additional analyses. Rules and norms
regarding alcohol consumption among football players
have differed substantially over time in Sweden.18 19 We
therefore modelled the interaction between the year of
the player’s first season in the top tier of competition
using restricted cubic splines with 3 knots and a
flexible parametric survival model20 to calculate the
hazard ratio for football players versus matched men
from the general population by year of the football
player’s first season.
Some of the most high profile cases of alcohol
addiction have occurred among players famous for
their goal scoring abilities. Previous studies have
shown associations between personality traits and
alcohol consumption.21 Therefore, we hypothesised
that factors potentially associated with scoring goals
(eg, sensation seeking),21 might also be associated
with the risk of alcohol related disorders. Further,
football players who have played many games and
seasons in the top tier could have been more exposed
to drinking culture associated with elite football, fame,
and public scrutiny. Another possibility is that football
players with drinking problems could have terminated
their careers early. We therefore hypothesised that the
number of games and seasons in the top tier might be
associated with alcohol related disorders.
In analyses restricted to football players, we used
the Cox regression model additionally adjusted for
birth cohort (categorical variable; supplementary table
3) to separately assess the association with alcohol
related disorders for number of goals scored per 10
games (among outfield players who had played at
least 10 games), the number of top tier games played,
and the number of seasons played, modelled using
cubic splines with 3 knots. We also assessed the risk
of alcohol related disorders among outfield players
versus goalkeepers.
Studies have indicated that elite athletes could
be at increased risk of alcohol related disorders
after retirement from their elite careers14 15 22 owing
to changes in life circumstances associated with
retirement. We therefore assessed whether the risk of
alcohol related disorders among football players versus
men from the general population varied across age.
As outcome data from death certificates and hospital
admissions might poorly reflect the timing of the first
diagnosis, we set the earliest cohort entry to 1 January
2002, one year after the start of nationwide coverage
for outpatient visits in the National Patient Register.
We excluded football players (and matched men from
the general population) and men from the general
population who had died, emigrated, or had any
history of alcohol related disorders before cohort entry.
We calculated the hazard ratio of the risk of alcohol
related disorders for football players versus men from
the general population using the total follow-up time
in this analysis, and in another analysis modelling age
using restricted cubic splines with 3 knots.
We performed a sensitivity analysis. The earliest
possible cohort entry was in 1969. If players and men
from the general population had different risks of death
with alcohol related disorders, the exclusion of those
who died before 1969 could introduce left truncation
bias owing to a depletion of individuals susceptible to
alcohol related disorders.23 We therefore conducted an
analysis including only those players and those men
from the general population who were 49 years or
younger at cohort entry.
We performed exploratory analyses assessing the
impact of accounting for some characteristics that
might differ between elite football players and men
from the general population. Some men from the
general population could have had severe health or
social problems that precluded participation in the
workforce and increased the risk of alcohol related
disorders. Therefore, we performed two analyses that
excluded men from the general population with zero
registered income at cohort entry, and at age 40-44
years (supplementary table 4). For these analyses, we
excluded men from the general population without
available income data and football players with no
matched men from the general population for whom
income data was available. We then performed the
analysis with and without exclusion of men from the
general population with zero registered income.
Next, we used data from the Military Conscription
Register. Firstly, we performed the analysis including all
football players and men from the general population
born in 1951-87, because military conscription was
mandatory at around age 18 years for men born during
this period.24 Individuals living abroad, those with
certain health conditions, and those with functional
impairments were exempt from conscription or
tests (supplementary material (data sources) and
supplementary table 4), so we performed the analyses
excluding football players and men from the general
population born 1951-87 without complete data on test
results, including stress reliance, cognitive ability, body
mass index, muscle strength, and cardiorespiratory
exercise capacity (supplementary table 4). We then
performed analyses adjusting for stress resilience and
cognitive ability scores.25-27 Finally, we further adjusted
the model for body mass index, muscle strength, and
cardiorespiratory exercise capacity.
The secondary outcome of disorders related to other
drug misuse was also assessed. ICD-8 codes, which
were used before 1987, did not contain diagnoses
suitable for capturing the secondary outcome in death
certificates, so we set the earliest date of cohort entry
to 1 January 1987, when nationwide coverage in the
National Patient Register for inpatient diagnoses
began. In these analyses, we excluded players who
died or emigrated before 1987 and their matched men
from the general population, and men from the general
population who died or emigrated before 1987. We also
excluded players and men from the general population
aged 65 years or older in 1987 to avoid potential left
truncation bias.23
Analyses were conducted using SAS software
(version 9.4) and Stata (version 16.1). Hazard ratios
whose confidence intervals did not overlap 1.0 were
considered as significant.


