Statistical analysis
We used a descriptive analysis of the characteristics
of the retracted papers identified, by reference to the
variables of interest, with continuous variables being
expressed as median and interquartile range, and
categorical variables as absolute number and relative
frequency.
We calculated the publication rate of papers that
were retracted because of paper mills per 100 000
papers published in a given year, over the total number
of papers published for the same year. Therefore, we
assessed the proportion of papers mill publications
regarding the total number of publications in each
year of the study period. Additionally, we calculated
the percentage of paper mill papers retracted per year,
with respect to the total number of retractions per year,
to ascertain the proportion of paper mill retractions
compared with retractions for any other reason.
We described the distribution of this type of papers
by Journal Citation Reports category of the journal
in which they were published. We created a ranking
of journals and publishers based on the number of
retracted paper mill papers they published during
the study period. We have determined if the journal
of publication was reliable, that is, not suspected of
being a predatory journal, in the subsample of the
scientific journals that published the most retracted
paper mill papers. To assess the reliability of a journal,
we used the ThinkCheckSubmit checklist (https://
thinkchecksubmit.org/journals).
We calculated the time elapsed between the paper’s
submission and publication and the time elapsed
between the paper’s publication and retraction, in
days. Analysis of the times elapsed between submission
and publication and the times between publication
and retraction were stratified by the Journal Citation
Reports quartile of the journal in which the paper was
published. Similarly, we analysed the total citations
received by the papers, both overall and stratified by
quartile. All statistical analyses were done using the
Stata version 17.0 computer software programme.
