tatistical analysis
We did basic descriptive analyses of the responses
to the questions on sociodemographics, health
behaviours, and conspiracy beliefs. We dichotomised
CAM and CAM-MYCS responses into “correct”
(strongly agree/agree on CAM, strongly disagree/
disagree on CAM-MYCS) and “incorrect” (unsure/
disagree/strongly disagree on CAM, unsure/agree/
strongly agree on CAM-MYCS) responses, which
resulted in a total score of 0-11 for CAM and 0-12 for
CAM-MYCS (1 point for each correct answer). We also
added the dichotomised “correct”’ CAM and CAM-
MYCS responses together, resulting in a 0-23 CAM-
total score. We converted the scores to a “percentage
correct” (0-100) score, using the percentage of
maximum possible method. We classified responses
on whether screening was recommended for certain
types of cancer as correct if they were marked “yes”
for breast, colorectal, and cervical cancers, according
to current recommendations by the European Code of
Cancer, and incorrect if they were marked “yes” for
lung, ovarian, and prostate cancers.
We did multivariable analyses of CAM, CAM-MYCS,
and CAM-total by using quantile regression. We used
unconditional logistic regression to do multivariable
analyses of binary variables. We introduced missing
values into the models as independent categories. We
treated ordinal variables as continuous variables to
test linear trends. Models were adjusted for covid-19
vaccination (unvaccinated versus one dose or more),
conspiracy beliefs (yes, no), preference for medicine
(alternative, conventional), age (<25, 25-34, 35-44,
and ≥45 years), sex (male, female, and non-binary),
education level (below college level, at least college
level), region (Europe, others), medical occupation (no,
yes), body mass index (body mass index <25, 25-29.9,
and ≥30), regular alcohol intake (no, yes), smoking
(never, ever), personal history of cancer (no, yes), and
source of the survey (ForoCoches, cancer blog, 4Chan/
Reddit/Hispachan/others). All tests were two tailed,
with a significance level of 0.05. We used Stata version
16.0 for all analyses and generated graphs by using
R version 4.1.2. We obtained consent to participate
by using the following sentence: “I understand the
purpose of this study, and I grant consent to the use of
my responses for the purposes of this study (Yes/No).”
In total, 46 participants explicitly denied their consent
to participate by clicking “No.” We calculated the
sample size by using the previous CAM-total of Shahab
et al.21 Assuming a one to four ratio, we needed at least
290 (58:232) participants to detect a 15% two sided
difference in the CAM-total score with 80% power and
650 (130:520) participants to detect a 10% difference
between the two groups.
