Statistical analysis
We calculated age standardised rates and
corresponding 95% confidence intervals by
standardisation, based on the world standard
population reported in the Global Burden of Disease
Study 2019.15 Rates in our estimates are shown per
100 000 population.
To assess the magnitude and direction of temporal
trends in the incidence, DALY, and mortality for
early onset type 2 diabetes, we calculated average
annual per cent change and corresponding 95%
confidence intervals by joinpoint regression.16 The
Joinpoint Regression Program software (version
4.9.0.0, National Cancer Institute, USA) took trend
data and fitted the simplest joinpoint model allowed
by the data. The programme started with the minimum
number of joinpoints (eg, a straight line of 0 joinpoint)
and tested whether more joinpoints were significant
and should be added to the model. We used a Monte
Carlo permutation method for tests of significance. The
average annual per cent change was calculated from
the annual per cent change of each segment in the last
significant model in a weighted manner.
We conducted comparisons between the sexes, age
groups (five year intervals; 15-19, 20-24, 25-29, 30-
34, and 35-39 years), and sociodemographic index
(five categories). The supplementary materials provide
details about sociodemographic index. Least squares
regression and generalised additive models were
applied to examine the possible linear or non-linear
relations between sociodemographic index and age
standardised rates or corresponding average annual
per cent change.
The proportional contribution of each risk factor
was estimated by dividing the attributable DALY for
that factor by the total DALY for early onset type 2
diabetes. Because the protective effect of moderate
consumption of alcohol on type 2 diabetes is
debated,17 and the population attributable fraction
by high fasting plasma glucose level was assumed
to be 100% in the Global Burden of Disease Study
2019,14 we did not include consumption of alcohol
and high fasting plasma glucose level in our final
analysis. R software (version 4.1.0) was used for the
statistical analyses. A P value <0.05 was regarded as
significant.
