Statistical analyses
We matched cases and controls one to one on province
of residence, week of testing, type of test (antigen or
genomic), presence of comorbidities, sex, and age
(±1 year). Ties during matching were automatically
and randomly resolved by the algorithm. Matching
improves statistical efficiency in case-control
studies and yields unbiased estimates when a model
accounting for matching, such as conditional logistic
regression, is used. The effect of the matching factors
on the outcome cannot be estimated in matched sets
and thus is a considerable disadvantage of matching.
To compare characteristics between cases and test
negative controls, we did descriptive analyses for the
unmatched and matched cohorts. P values shown refer
to Student’s t test, Mann-Whitney U test, or Kruskal-
Wallis rank sum test for differences in numerical
variables or χ2 tests for proportions.
We used conditional logistic regression to compare
the odds of SARS-CoV-2 infection as a function of
vaccination status, taking the matching pairs into
consideration. We estimated vaccine effectiveness
as (1–odds ratio)×100% and presented it with its
corresponding 95% confidence interval by using the
profile likelihood method. We estimated the same
intervals by using bootstrapping as a robustness
analysis. We created 1000 resampled datasets of
matched case-control pairs. The total number of
participants in each sample was equal to that of the
original dataset (or the subset, for subgroup analysis),
but differences within datasets were due to allowing
4
replacement when sampling. For each of these
datasets, we fitted a conditional logistic regression
model and calculated vaccine effectiveness as in the
main analysis. We calculated bootstrapping based
vaccine effectiveness by taking the mean of the 1000
resampled datasets and defined its confidence interval
limits as the empirical centiles 0.25 and 97.5.
We classified vaccination status in different levels
depending on the subanalysis. The unvaccinated group
was the selected reference group in all the analyses.
Other levels of the vaccination status variable refer to
participants who were partially vaccinated (at least 14
days between first dose and test), those who received
three doses, and others (details in Data sources and
definitions). The level of interest of this study is the
fully vaccinated group with at least 14 days between
their second dose and the diagnostic test.
We did several subanalyses. Firstly, we split data
according to the study period (on 25 December 2021)
considering the change in the dominant variant (from
delta to omicron). In the last week of the delta period,
68.2% of cases were identified as due to delta and 31.7%
as due to omicron. During the first week of the omicron
period, 79.2% of the studied cases were assigned to this
variant.22 For a second subanalysis, we used another
split in age subgroups (3-11 and 12-17 years).
Seeking evidence of waning immunity, in a third
subanalysis we divided the fully vaccinated group into
four levels according to the time between their second dose
and the test (15-30, 31-45, 46-60, ≥61 days). For a fourth
subanalysis, we split the same level to assess vaccine
effectiveness by product in the adolescent subpopulation,
with all possible combinations of BNT162b2 and mRNA-
1273 vaccines against both variants.
Fifthly, we did three sensitivity analyses. We
assessed the effect of the type of test in the estimation
by doing a subanalysis estimating RT-PCR and antigen
based vaccine effectiveness separately. We fitted a
linear regression model and used the non-parametric
Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon test to assess whether the
difference between estimations was different from zero.
For the linear model, PCR based estimates were the
predictor variable and antigen based estimates were
the dependent variable, as most test negative, case-
control studies use PCR tests to assign participants
a case status. We then repeated the main analysis
excluding matching pairs in epidemiological weeks
with zero fully vaccinated, to assess how not holding
the positivity assumption might bias our estimates.
Lastly, we excluded participants who had a previous
infection to assess whether these participants might be
biasing our estimates.
Finally, for a fatality analysis, we matched
participants with covid-19 associated death one to
four to covid-19 negative participants by using the
same matching criteria as the one used in the primary
analysis estimating vaccine effectiveness against
SARS-CoV-2 infection. On this second matched case-
control group, we estimated vaccine effectiveness
against mortality through an adjusted conditional
logistic regression model.
Data preprocessing was carried out with PostgreSQL
(PostgreSQL Global Development Group). We used R
software (R Development Core Team, version 3.6.1) for
all statistical analyses.

