Statistical analysis
Analysis was conducted according to a statistical
analysis plan agreed in advance with the independent
trial steering committee or data monitoring committee
and reported according to CONSORT (consolidated
standards of reporting trials) guidelines.39 40 The two
trials (parents or carers, and young people) were
analysed separately. We used descriptive statistics to
compare baseline characteristics of trial participants
by allocated group. The primary analyses for the total
POEM score used generalised linear mixed models with
observations over time from week 1 to week 24 (level
1) nested within participants (level 2). Our primary
outcome is based on adjusted results, controlling
for age, baseline POEM score, recruiting centre, sex,
ethnicity, prior belief in the intervention, previous
use of a website or app for eczema, and parental
education (in the parent and carer trial). We also report
unadjusted results for the primary outcome.
Participants who had at least one follow-up POEM
score between weeks 6 and 24 were included in the
primary repeated measures analysis. For all models,
participants were analysed in the group to which they
were randomised, regardless of their adherence to that
allocation (intention-to-treat analysis).
The model used all the observed data and implicitly
assumes that, given the observed data, missing POEM
scores were missing at random. The model included a
random effect for centre (random intercept) and patient
(random intercept and slope on time) to allow for
differences between participants and between centres
at baseline and differences between participants
in the rate of change over time if a treatment-time
interaction was statistically significant, and fixed
effects for baseline covariates. We initially fitted this
model (as specified in the statistical analysis plan),
but as the intraclass correlation coefficient for regional
centre was <0.001, regional centre was included as a
fixed effect (rather than a random effect) in the final
model. An unstructured covariance matrix was used.
We examined the structure and pattern of missing
data, and multiple imputation was performed as a
sensitivity analysis. The imputation model included
all the covariates in the analysis model, as well as
any covariates predictive of missingness. Overall,
100 imputed datasets were generated using multiple
imputation with chained equations, and the data was
analysed using the same model as for the primary
analysis.
For the analysis of secondary outcomes, we used
repeated measures analysis for the monthly POEM
measure up to 52 weeks consistent with that used for
the primary outcome. For other secondary outcomes,
linear regression was used for continuous outcomes
if the assumptions were met. Logistic regression was
used for dichotomous outcomes. When appropriate,
we analysed highly skewed variables as dichotomous
outcomes. All secondary analyses controlled for
baseline value, recruiting centre, age, sex, ethnicity,
prior belief in the intervention, previous use of a
website or app for eczema, and parental education
(in the parent and carer trial). The data were analysed
using Stata version 16.

