The primary analysis was conducted using a frequentist approach.
Dichotomous variables were pooled using a random effects model
(DerSimonian and Laird), and effect estimates were reported as
relative risks with corresponding 95% confidence intervals, and
continuous variables as mean differences with corresponding 95%
confidence intervals. Mean values and standard deviations were
estimated from median and interquartile range when required, as
previously described.22 Oxygen saturation to fraction of inspired
oxygen (SpO2:FiO2) ratios were estimated from arterial oxygen
tension to fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO2:FiO2) ratios as
previously described.23 For cluster randomized controlled trials we
planned to account for the design effect17 using intraclass correlation
reported in the study or in other similar studies, but these trials did
not contribute to any outcomes that were meta-analyzed. Trials
with no events in both arms were excluded from primary analyses.
We assessed the percentage of the total variance due to
2
heterogeneity between trials using the I statistic.24 Intention-to-treat
data were used whenever possible.
Preplanned secondary bayesian analyses for endotracheal
intubation and mortality outcomes were also performed to assess
the robustness of results according to varying and prespecified prior
beliefs about the effect of awake prone positioning. The bayesian
approach differs from the conventional frequentist approach. We
used established informative priors for heterogeneity between
studies.25 We used non-informative priors for mean effects, followed
by those informed by a previously published meta-analysis of
controlled observational studies involving 1526 patients pooled
from 10 studies9 (see supplemental eTable 1 for intubation priors
and mortality priors) and hypothetical ones based on a proposed
framework in critical care.25 26 Priors were defined and declared a
priori. Bayesian random effects meta-analysis was performed using
normal-normal hierarchical models and a hybrid random walk
Metropolis-Hastings algorithm with Gibbs updates and blocked
model parameters, four chains, random initial chain values, a
minimum of 40 000 Markov chain Monte Carlo samples with 10 000
burn-in, and thinning of 10 to estimate posterior distributions of
effects. Convergence was confirmed visually and with Gelman-Rubin
diagnostic statistics all less than 1.1 (see supplemental eFigure 7).
Results from the bayesian analyses were reported as relative risks
and corresponding centile based 95% credible intervals.
Trial sequential analysis was performed to assess risks of random
error in the conventional meta-analyses and if the required
information size assumptions were met according to prespecified
effect sizes of interest (see supplemental eMethods 3).27
In addition, we performed several preplanned subgroup analyses
according to risk of bias, duration of awake prone positioning,
severity of baseline hypoxemia, geographic/economic setting,
location at randomization, and baseline mode of oxygen delivery.
The cut points defining the subgroups for duration of awake prone
positioning (≥5 h/day v <5 h/day and severity of baseline hypoxemia
(SpO2:FiO2 <150 v ≥150) were chosen as they approximated the
median values in the COVI-PRONE trial14 and the Ehrmann et al
prospective meta-analysis,11 which represented the largest trials
with data available to us at the time of protocol development. Our
assumption was that these cut points would approximate the median
of the medians across all trials. We conducted several preplanned
sensitivity analyses: excluding unpublished trials (ie, abstracts and
preprints), trials reported as stopping early, outcomes from the
individual trials of the prospective meta-analysis (and instead
substituting with pooled outcomes from the prospective
meta-analysis of randomized trials), trials with no events in either
arm, cluster randomized trials, quasi-randomized trials, and studies
with more than low risk of bias. A post hoc sensitivity analysis was
conducted with a random effects model using a restricted maximum
likelihood approach with the Hartung-Knapp-Sidik-Jonkman
confidence interval correction.28 Because more randomized
controlled trials were identified than anticipated, we modified the
analysis plan post hoc to exclude any quasi-randomized trials from
the primary and secondary outcome analyses and instead include
such trials in a sensitivity analysis. We performed a preplanned
meta-regression to assess the association between the average daily
duration of awake prone positioning (predictor variable) and the
primary outcome of endotracheal intubation. We examined small
study effects by inspecting funnel plots and the results of Egger’s
test.29
Frequentist and bayesian analyses were performed in STATA (Stata
version 16.0 and 17.0). We used trial sequential analysis software
(version 0.9.5.10 Beta, Copenhagen Trial Unit, Center for Clinical
Intervention Research, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark).
Two sided P values <0.05 were considered statistically significant.
GradePro software was used to summarize Grading of
Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation
(GRADE) recommendations and to calculate absolute effect
calculations based upon the baseline risk and relative effect size.
We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence
for every outcome based on the following domains: risk of bias,
inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision, and publication bias.30
Certainty of the evidence was classified as high, moderate, low, or
very low.


