Statistical Analysis
The analyses followed a prespecified statistical analysis plan,
and detailed information is available in Supplement 2. The pri-
mary outcome, measured using the PGI-I, was dichotomized
as subjective improvement (much or very much) or not (all other
reported values), and the risk difference was estimated.
A 1-sided 95% CI was used to assess noninferiority, in line with
the 1-sided test α of 5%. When the lower limit of the confi-
dence interval of the risk difference included or extended be-
low the noninferiority margin of −10%, noninferiority was not
proven. The Farrington-Manning test was used to calculate a
P value for noninferiority. Populations used for assessing the
primary outcome were the population analyzed as random-
ized, as well as a per-protocol population. The full analysis set
contained the entire population as randomized with their ini-
tially allocated treatment and irrespective of adherence. The
per-protocol population consisted of all women randomized
to pessary therapy who continued pessary use at 24 months,
and all women randomized to surgery without receiving ad-
ditional treatment (ie, pessary or repeat surgery). Both re-
sults based on the population as randomized, as well as those
based on the per-protocol population, were used for the over-
all conclusion about noninferiority of pessary treatment as
compared to surgery in this trial.
For dichotomous secondary outcomes, relative risks with
2-sided 95% CIs were estimated. Statistical testing was con-
ducted using a χ2 test. Continuous secondary outcomes were
analyzed using the t test or Mann-Whitney U test, depending
on normality, and described as mean (SD) or median (IQR) as
appropriate. Differences in PFDI-20, PFIQ-7, and PISQ-IR scores
were reported with 2-sided 95% CIs obtained by bootstrap-
ping (10 000 replications). A 2-sided P value of ≤.05 was con-
sidered as statistically significant.
Time to discontinuation of initial treatment, reoperation,
switching from pessary to surgery, or additional use of a pes-
sary by women after surgery was analyzed by plotting a Kaplan-
Meier curve and log-rank test.
For primary outcomes of patients in the as-randomized
population, as well as the per-protocol population, who were
lost to follow-up due to missing status, sensitivity analyses were
specified using multiple imputation to assess robustness of re-
sults, especially if noninferiority would be shown (eAppen-
dix in Supplement 3). SPSS version 27 (IBM) and SAS version
9.4 (SAS Institute) were used for statistical analyses. Because
of the potential for type I error due to multiple comparisons,
findings for analyses of secondary end points should be inter-
preted as exploratory.
