Statistical Analysis
All analyses were preplanned, prespecified, and conducted
using the doubly robust weighted least squares estimator to
reduce potential bias and improve precision.30,31 This method
estimates the average treatment effect of the intervention, the
comparison in population average outcomes between all in-
dividuals being assigned to the treatment group and all indi-
viduals being assigned to the wait-list control group. The dou-
bly robust weighted least squares estimator uses an outcome
regression model with weights to account for imbalance in
baseline covariates between treatment groups and missing
data. The analytic weights involve a propensity score weight
and an inverse probability of attrition weight (IPAW). Code for
the estimator was written by J.B. and validated by E.E.G.M.
A sensitivity analysis repeated the analysis with exclusion
of outcomes obtained more than 30 days outside of the study
window to assess the influence of outcomes obtained out-
side the protocol window. A post hoc sensitivity analysis as-
sessed the influence of imputation by using the screening
HHIE-S scores to impute missing baseline HHIE-S scores. All
randomized participants were included in analyses, includ-
ing the primary analysis, and were analyzed according to how
they were randomized irrespective of the treatment they re-
ceived. An additional secondary analysis estimated the com-
plier average causal effect by including weights from a pro-
pensity model to account for differences in baseline HHIE-S,
age, and PTA between those who did and did not adhere to the
intervention.32 Adherence was defined as attending all inter-
vention sessions and reporting at least 1 hour per day of am-
plification device use 3 months postintervention.
In each analysis, the propensity score models, IPAW mod-
els, and outcome models included the baseline value of the out-
come, age, and PTA in the better-hearing ear as linear terms, and
estimates are valid under the assumption that data are missing
at random given this information and treatment assignment.
Means and their differences at 3 months postrandomiza-
tion and 12 months postintervention were estimated using
IPAW to account for missing data. Specification of IPAW mod-
els was identical to the inverse-weight models in the primary
and secondary analyses. Twelve-month postintervention IPAW
models additionally included 3-month postrandomization
change in the outcome as a covariate.
Ninety-five percent confidence intervals were obtained
using bias-corrected and accelerated bootstrap resampling pro-
cedure with 10 000 replicates. Mean or mode imputation of
any missing baseline covariates was performed within each
bootstrap sample. All analyses conducted were reported, and
confidence intervals for secondary and exploratory analyses
were not adjusted for multiplicity. Statistical significance was
assessed at the .05 level using 2-sided testing. Because of the
potential for type I error due to multiple comparisons, find-
ings for analyses of secondary end points should be inter-
preted as exploratory. Given the low-risk nature of the inter-
vention, no interim analyses and stopping guidelines were
applied. Analyses were completed using Stata version SE 16.0
(StataCorp) and R version 4.2.0.


