Statistical Analysis
We determined that the enrollment of 410 pa-
tients (205 per trial group) would provide a power
of 80% to determine a minimum relevant be-
tween-group difference in the eGFR of 5 ml per
minute per 1.73 m2 at an alpha level of 0.05,
assuming a loss to follow-up of 20%. This dif-
ference would represent an effect size of 0.31,
with a standard deviation of 16 ml per minute
per 1.73 m2.
Analyses were based on the intention-to-treat
principle and were adjusted for the minimiza-
tion variables and baseline values (where avail-
able). The intention-to-treat population included
all the patients who had undergone randomiza-
tion, regardless of what treatment (if any) they
had received. All available data for patients who
had been lost to follow-up, had withdrawn from
the trial, or had died before trial completion
were included in the analysis. The statistical
analysis plan did not include a provision for cor-
rection for multiplicity, so secondary outcomes
are reported as point estimates and 95% confi-
dence intervals. The widths of confidence inter-
vals have not been adjusted for multiple com-
parisons and may not be used for hypothesis
testing. Full details regarding the analysis meth-
ods are provided in the statistical analysis plan,
available with the protocol.
We used a repeated-measures, mixed-effects
linear regression model (which included a term
for the interaction of the time with treatment
group) to estimate the between-group difference
in eGFR at 3 years. A compound symmetry co-
variance structure was assumed. Any measure-
ments of eGFR that were made after patients
had initiated dialysis or undergone kidney trans-
plantation were excluded. To examine the effect
of data that were not missing at random, we
performed sensitivity analyses by fitting pattern-
mixture and joint models for the primary out-
come. We also repeated analyses for the primary
outcome with the use of two other four-variable
equations for the eGFR calculation: the Chronic
Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration 2009
(CKD-EPI 2009) equation and the MDRD186
equation. Details regarding these analyses are
provided in the Supplementary Appendix, avail-
able at NEJM.org.
Continuously distributed secondary outcomes,
such as blood pressure, were analyzed with the
use of the same methods that were used in the
primary analysis, but data were not censored at
the time of initiation of renal-replacement ther-
apy. Categorical (dichotomous) secondary out-
comes were analyzed with the use of a Poisson
regression model with robust standard errors to
estimate the relative risk and 95% confidence
interval, because the log-binomial model did not
converge. We used a Cox proportional-hazards
model to calculate hazard ratios and 95% confi-
dence intervals for time-to-event outcomes, such
as the development of ESKD or the initiation of
renal-replacement therapy. Categorical safety out-
come measures (i.e., hospitalization and serious
adverse events) were summarized as the percent-
age of patients with these events.
Data collection for kidney outcomes did not
distinguish between ESKD and renal-replacement
outcomes (i.e., both outcomes used the same
end-point code), although investigators could
note the specific outcome. Prespecified sub-
group analyses were performed only for the
primary outcome according to the minimization
variables. Time and subgroup were included in
the model to allow for the possibility of differ-
ential changes over time within subgroups, time
according to subgroup, and the three-way inter-
action among the variables of treatment, time,
and subgroup. Although all data were included
in the regression models for the subgroup
analyses, only estimates of differences at 3 years
are presented. All analyses were performed with
the use of SAS software, version 9.4 (SAS Insti-
tute), and Stata software, version 17 (StataCorp).
