Statistical Analysis
Data from the AID-ICU cohort study8 provided
us with the likely distribution of days alive and
out of the hospital at 90 days in the placebo
group. Assuming that haloperidol would lead to
a 15% lower incidence of death in the hospital
and a shorter hospital admission time than pla-
cebo, such that the combined effect would re-
flect an 8% greater mean number of days alive
and out of the hospital, we estimated that 1000
patients would be required for the trial to have
90% power to detect such a difference at an al-
pha level of 5%.
Analyses of the primary and secondary out-
comes were performed in the intention-to-treat
population, which included all patients who had
undergone randomization, received the assigned
haloperidol or placebo,15 and provided consent
for their data to be used. The per-protocol popu-
lation included the patients in the intention-to-
treat population, with the exclusion of those who
had one or more major protocol violation. Ad-
ditional information on the definitions and oc-
currence of major protocol violations is provided
in the Supplementary Appendix.
The statistical analyses were performed ac-
cording to the published statistical analysis plan
by the first and tenth authors, who were un-
aware of the trial-group assignments.11 All anal-
yses were adjusted for stratification variables
(trial site and delirium motor subtype). In the
primary analysis, we used a linear-regression
model to estimate the adjusted mean difference
between the groups. Because of the nonnormal
distribution, we bootstrapped 95% confidence
intervals; 50,000 resampling iterations were used
in the bootstrap. The Kryger Jensen and Lange16
test was used to estimate the P value because
this test was designed for distributions of out-
come results that show many patients with a
value of zero, which would be the case for the
number of days alive and out of the hospital, the
outcome used in the current trial. The two com-
ponents of the primary outcome — mortality
and hospital length of stay at 90 days — were
analyzed with the use of binary logistic regres-
sion and a linear-regression model, respectively.
The secondary analysis of the primary out-
come was adjusted for additional predefined risk
factors at baseline (the presence of traumatic brain
injury, stroke, mental illness, neurodegenerative
illness, alcohol overconsumption, substance abuse,
benzodiazepine use, tobacco smoking, predicted
90-day mortality, and use of haloperidol before
ICU admission). The primary outcome was fur-
ther analyzed in the per-protocol population, and
heterogeneity of treatment effect was evaluated
in prespecified subgroups that were defined at
baseline according to trial site, delirium motor
subtype (hyperactive vs. hypoactive), ICU admis-
sion type (medical vs. surgical), sex (female vs.
male), age (<69 years vs. ≥69 years8), patients with
one or more risk factors of delirium (yes vs. no),
and disease severity (SMS-ICU score <25 vs. ≥25).
With regard to the secondary outcomes, days
alive without delirium or coma in the ICU and
days alive without mechanical ventilation were
analyzed with the use of a linear-regression
model; the number of patients with one or more
serious adverse reactions and the number of
patients receiving rescue medication were ana-
lyzed with the use of logistic regression; and the
total number of serious adverse reactions and
the number of days with use of rescue medica-
tion per patient were analyzed with the use of
Poisson regression.
A two-sided P value of less than 0.05 was
considered to indicate statistical significance in
the analysis of the primary outcome. If the be-
tween-group difference with respect to the pri-
mary outcome was found to be significant, a
hierarchical testing procedure would be applied,
in which the alpha level (5%) would be divided
evenly among the six secondary outcomes, cor-
responding with a significance level of 0.83%.
To account for correlation among outcomes, the
0.83% alpha level was rounded to 1%, and con-
sequently, 99% confidence intervals were used.
If the between-group difference with respect to
the primary outcome was not found to be sig-
nificant, the secondary outcomes would be con-
sidered to be explorative in accordance with the
principles in Jakobsen et al.17,18
No imputation for missing data was performed
because the number of patients with missing data
was low for all outcomes and was therefore con-
sidered to be negligible.19 We performed all sta-
tistical analyses with R software, version 4.1.2
(R Core Team, R Foundation for Statistical Com-
puting). Additional details regarding the statisti-
cal methods are provided in the Supplementary
Appendix.

