Statistical Analysis
Sample sizes for comparing each vaccine regimen
with placebo with regard to antibody response
and serious adverse events, separately among
adults and children, exceeded those required. A
larger-than-required sample size was specified
because if a correlate of protection was identi-
fied after the start of the trial, the plan was to
compare the active vaccines with one another
(Sections S3.2 and S4). For the comparisons be-
fore the second injection in the rVSV group
(which was placebo) and the rVSV–booster group,
data from the two groups were pooled.
Data from adults and children were analyzed
as two separate trials, with the use of identical
statistical analyses. The trial involving children
also included additional, prespecified analyses
(see below).
Each active vaccine was compared with the
pooled placebo group in the analysis of antibody
response at month 12 with the use of logistic
regression with trial site as a covariate. Odds
ratios with 95% confidence intervals were used
to compare percentages of participants with an
antibody response between each vaccine regimen
and placebo at each follow-up visit. Additional
analyses to further characterize the antibody
response are described in the Supplementary Ap-
pendix.
After log10 transformation, the mean anti-
body concentrations were compared between the
vaccine groups and the placebo group at each
follow-up visit, with the use of analysis of covar­
iance with the baseline log10 level and site as
covariates. Geometric mean concentrations after
back-transformation are reported. Geometric mean
ratios (for each vaccine vs. placebo) and 95% con-
fidence intervals are also reported.
Subgroup analyses for antibody response were
performed according to laboratory and according
to country within laboratory. In addition, in the
trial involving children, we performed prespeci-
fied subgroup analyses according to age group.
For each of the two trials, one involving chil-
dren and one involving adults, we used a two-
sided significance level of 0.0167 (Bonferroni
method) to control the type I error for the three
comparisons of each vaccine group with the
placebo group for the primary analysis at month
12. Because the statistical analysis plan did not
include a provision for correcting for multiplicity
across outcomes, results for secondary outcomes
are reported as point estimates with 95% confi-
dence intervals. The widths of these confidence
intervals have not been adjusted for multiplicity,
so the intervals should not be used to infer de-
finitive treatment effects for secondary outcomes.
Statistical analyses were performed with the use
of SAS software, version 9.4 (SAS Institute).

