Statistical Analysis
The sample size was estimated with the use of
McNemar’s test and the incidences of response
observed in the phase 1–2 trial at weeks 8 through
12. At a power of 90% and a two-sided alpha level
of 5%, we calculated that 24 patients (24 pri-
mary wound pairs) would show a difference
between trial groups if the true incidence of
response was 75% for B-VEC and 25% for pla-
cebo and if responses for matched pair members
were uncorrelated. A 20 to 25% dropout rate was
assumed with a target sample size of 30 to 32
patients.
Primary and secondary efficacy analyses and
baseline summaries were based on the intention-
to-treat population, which included all the pa-
tients whose primary wounds underwent ran-
domization, regardless of whether B-VEC or
placebo was applied. If the results for the pri-
mary end point were significant, the two-sided
5% alpha level was to be passed to the key
secondary end point. The widths of confidence
intervals for differences between trial groups for
all other analyses were not adjusted for multi-
plicity, and definite conclusions cannot be drawn
from these results. The primary and key second-
ary patient-level end points were binary indica-
tors of wound healing that were summarized
within trial groups as percentages. Subgroup
analyses for the primary end point were pre-
specified on the basis of sex and age; a post hoc
subgroup analysis was performed on the basis of
area or size category of the primary wounds.
Supplementary analyses assessed complete wound
closure at various time points, including a post
hoc assessment of durability of wound healing
(confirmed at two consecutive visits 2 weeks
apart) at both 3 and 6 months. Safety analyses
were based on the safety population, which in-
cluded all the patients who had received at least
one dose of B-VEC or placebo.
To account for the paired nature of the data,
an exact McNemar’s test was used to analyze
primary and key secondary efficacy end points.
A multiple imputation approach involving the
Markov chain Monte Carlo method under the
assumption that all the variables in the imputa-
tion model have a joint multivariate normal
distribution was used to impute missing data,
and the resulting 10 data sets were combined.20
The 95% confidence intervals were calculated
for the percentage of wounds with a response to
B-VEC as compared with placebo. Analysis of
covariance, with trial product and patient as the
fixed effects and baseline pain severity as the co-
variate, was used to evaluate the difference be-
tween B-VEC and placebo in the change from
baseline to weeks 22, 24, and 26 in pain severity
during wound-dressing changes as measured by
VAS and FLACC-R scores. Changes in EQ-5D-5L
and Skindex-29 scores were reported with the
use of mean values and standard errors. All sta-
tistical analyses were performed with the use of
SAS software, version 9.4.
