Statistical Analysis
We originally determined that the enrollment of
2100 patients (1620 in cohort 1 and 480 in co-
hort 2) would provide 85% power to detect a
relative difference of 25% in the primary out-
come favoring the surgical group (i.e., an event
rate of 53.0% in the surgical group and 61.1% in
the endovascular group) in cohort 1 and 80%
power to detect a relative difference of 30% in
the primary outcome favoring the endovascular
group (i.e., an event rate of 53.0% in the surgical
group and 45.3% in the endovascular group) in
cohort 2. In the two cohorts, the null hypothesis
was that there would be no difference in the
time from randomization to a primary-outcome
event between the surgical group and the endo-
vascular group. In the two cohorts, the calcula-
tions were to be based on 2.95 years of follow-up
and a type I error rate of 0.05; the sample sizes
were determined to allow for crossover between
groups, loss to follow-up, and the performance
of two interim analyses at prespecified intervals.
Trial enrollment was stopped early after 1830
patients had been enrolled owing to a lack of
continued funding. Supplemental funding was
raised to allow for 24 months of follow-up for all
the patients in cohort 1. Details regarding revi-
sions to the statistical analysis plan are provided
in the trial protocol.
The primary and secondary outcome analyses
were performed according to the intention-to-
treat principle. Analyses were carried out sepa-
rately in each cohort. Time-to-event outcomes
were described with the use of Kaplan–Meier
plots, and the two treatment groups were com-
pared with the use of log-rank test statistics. We
used a prespecified covariate-adjusted Cox model
that was stratified according to randomization
categories to calculate hazard ratios and their
95% confidence intervals. Missing baseline co-
variates were imputed with the use of multiple
imputation. We used Cox models that had been
adjusted for the imputed covariates to calculate
the results of secondary efficacy and safety analy-
ses. In the primary analysis, a P value of less
than 0.045 after correction for two interim analy-
ses was considered to indicate statistical signifi-
cance. The widths of the confidence intervals
have not been adjusted for multiplicity, so confi-
dence intervals should not be used for hypothe-
sis testing. All the analyses were performed with
the use of SAS Enterprise Guide software, version
8.3 (SAS Institute), and R software, version 4.02.
Additional details regarding the statistical analy-
sis are provided in the Supplementary Appendix.
