Statistical analysis
We based power calculations on a time-to-first-event
analysis in a Cox proportional hazards model, because of
the complexity of power calculations based on recurrent
events and uncertainty about whether recurrent event
analysis increases statistical power. Because both
recruitment and event rates were lower than anticipated,
the trial duration had to be extended. These issues were
exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The AFFIRM-
AHF trial10 followed by a meta-analysis of published trials
of intravenous iron in patients with heart failure
suggested a larger treatment effect than originally
anticipated (odds ratio 0·73 [95% CI 0·59–0·90]).11 For
these reasons, the power calculations were revised and
the assumed hazard ratio changed from 0·80 to 0·75,
requiring 379 patients to reach a first primary endpoint in
order to provide 80% power at the 5% significance level.
Analyses included treatment group and recruitment
context as covariates. All efficacy analyses were done in the
validly randomly assigned population. Recurrent events
were analysed by the method of Lin and colleagues,12 with
treatment effect estimated in the form of rate ratios and
95% CIs, and mean frequency functions displayed using
the method of Ghosh and Lin.13 Prespecified subgroup
analyses were done for the primary endpoint. An
interaction term between randomly assigned treatment
group and the subgroup variable was added to the fitted
model and tested for significance. Primary and secondary
endpoints were analysed hierarchically in the order given
in the statistical analysis plan. Each outcome was analysed
sequentially with a requirement that a p value would not
be interpreted as meaningful unless the analysis of the
previous outcome was significant with a p value of less
than 0·05. Time-to-first-event outcomes were analysed
using Cox proportional hazards models and displayed
graphically using cumulative incidence functions or
Kaplan-Meier curves as appropriate. Non-proportionality
of hazards was assessed for each clinical outcome by
adding an interaction of treatment with the logarithm of
time to each model and testing for the significance of these
interactions. Quality of life scores and 6 min walk test
results were analysed using analysis of covariance with
multiple imputation for missing values, except results for
the 6 min walk test at 20 months, where the degree of
missingness, largely due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was
considered too great for valid imputation.
Safety analyses were done for patients assigned to
ferric derisomaltose who received at least one infusion
and all patients assigned to usual care. Proportions of
patients having serious adverse events in each system
organ class were compared between treatment groups
assuming binomial distributions.
Consistent with regulatory14,15 and other16 guidance to
reduce the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the trial
results, we prespecified a sensitivity analysis including all
patients randomly assigned until March 31, 2020, around
the start of the first national lockdown in the UK. The
censoring date was Sept 30, 2020, based on the assumption
that most patients would remain iron replete for at least
6 months from their last dose of ferric derisomaltose or
last test showing iron repletion. Very few research patients
could be seen in person in and around the time of the
COVID-19 lockdown. At the request of a referee we carried
out two additional post-hoc sensitivity analyses. In the
first, the COVID-19 sensitivity analysis was censored at
March 31, 2020, and in the second, censoring was further
set at 1 year to permit comparison with results from the
AFFIRM-AHF trial.
An Independent data monitoring committee reviewed
trial data on a regular basis and conducted preplanned
interim analyses of the primary endpoint when
approximately 50% and 70% of the target number of first
primary endpoints had been reached, requiring a p value
of less than 0·001 to recommend early stopping. No
p value adjustments were made for these interim analyses.
All analyses used SAS version 9.4 or R version 3.6.1. This
trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02642562.
