Statistical analysis
Statistical analyses and protocol changes have been
published previously.23 The sample size was driven by the
power for the key secondary endpoint. The within-group
SD for the change from withdrawal baseline (week 36) to
week 40 in mean trough SBP (measured as office blood
pressure) was expected to be around 15 mm Hg.22 With a
type I error of 0·05 (two sided), the sample size needed
for 90% power to detect a difference of 5 mm Hg between
aprocitentan 25 mg and placebo was 380 patients.
Assuming a drop-out rate of 37% during the 9 months
between randomisation and start of the withdrawal part,
to have 380 patients in the withdrawal part, a total of
600 patients needed to be randomly assigned (200 in each
of the three groups in the withdrawal part). Therefore,
for the primary endpoint, the power to detect a difference
of 6 mm Hg was over 90% (for 5·5 mm Hg, 6 mm Hg, or
6·5 mm Hg, the power was 92%, 96% and 98%,
respectively). Ultimately, 730 patients were randomly
assigned. The over-running was caused by the addition
of sites to compensate for lower recruitment due to the
COVID–19 pandemic. Briefly, the primary and key
secondary analyses were investigated using a mixed
model with factors for treatment group, visit, and
treatment by visit interaction, and covariates for baseline
or withdrawal baseline SBP and the interaction between
baseline or withdrawal baseline and visit using the
missing-at-random assumption. The key secondary
analysis included the randomised treatment in the
double-blind part as an additional factor for stratum. To
maintain an overall type I error at 0·05, two-sided
significance levels were set at 0·025 for the primary
endpoint, which assessed the efficacy of two aprocitentan
doses, and at 0·05 for the key secondary endpoint. No
multiplicity adjustment was applied to the analysis of
other variables.
Sensitivity analyses assessed the impact of deviations
from the missing-at-random assumption of the mixed
models for repeated measures and the impact of premature
discontinuation of double-blind treatment or the addition
of a diuretic or antihypertensive rescue medication.
Supportive analyses evaluated the impact of protocol
deviations and substitution rules. Exploratory analyses of
prespecified subgroups were performed. The study is
registered on ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03541174.
