Statistical analysis
We estimated that a sample of 200 participants allocated
to each regimen would give 80% power to show the
non-inferiority of the oral regimen versus the control
regimen at a one-sided significance level of 0·025 using a
10% margin of non-inferiority. This assumed the
following: a favourable efficacy outcome at 76 weeks in
80% of participants in the control regimen and 82% of
those in the oral regimen, and 14% of participants
excluded in the per-protocol analysis.
In the primary efficacy analysis, we calculated the
absolute between-group difference (with 95% CI) in the
proportion of participants with a favourable outcome,
adjusted for HIV status and randomisation protocol, using
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel weights.10 Non-inferiority was
shown if the upper boundary of the 95% CI was less than
10% in both the modified intention-to-treat (mITT) and
per-protocol populations. The mITT population included
all randomly assigned participants with a positive culture
for M tuberculosis at screening or randomisation, except for
participants with isolates taken before randomisation who
were subsequently found to be susceptible to rifampicin or
resistant to both fluoroquinolones and second-line
injectables on phenotypic drug-susceptibility testing. The
per-protocol population is the same as the mITT population
with the exclusion of participants who did not complete a
protocol-adherent course of treatment, other than for
treatment failure, change of treatment for an adverse
event, or death (appendix pp 16–17). We did one-sided tests
for non-inferiority and calculations of the 95% CIs using
the Wald standard error. Prespecified tests for superiority
were done when non-inferiority was shown. The
proportion of participants meeting each safety outcome
was calculated similarly in the safety population, which
comprised all participants who received at least one dose of
a trial medication, with two-sided tests of superiority. We
included a Bayesian interpretation of the primary outcome
as a supplementary analysis. Prespecified sensitivity
analyses of the primary efficacy analysis included analyses
that were unadjusted, adjusted for important baseline
characteristics, and where the definition of an unfavourable
outcome was modified (appendix p 25). The primary
efficacy analysis was also repeated in subgroups according
to prespecified baseline characteristics (appendix p 26). We
analysed time-to-event outcomes using the Kaplan-Meier
product limit estimator, log-rank tests for differences
between groups, and Cox-proportional hazards models;
these were displayed with the KMunicate format.11 We
tested assumptions of proportional hazards using
Schoenfeld residuals.
All comparisons were restricted to participants
randomly assigned concurrently. Analyses other than the
primary outcome were stratified by randomisation
protocol alone. Baseline characteristics and treatment
adherence were summarised using counts and
percentages or medians and IQRs. All analyses were
done in STATA, version 17.0. An independent Trial
Steering Committee oversaw the study with advice from
an independent Data Monitoring Committee who
regularly reviewed unblinded trial data. This trial is
registered with ISRCTN, ISRCTN18148631.
